# Inconsistent Accrued Interest Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0141  
Status: Final  
Release date: September 21, 2022  
Effective date: December 1, 2022  
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company used the including accrued interest elements and the excluding interest elements in the same context. Companies are required to disclose if they report investments including accrued interest or excluding accrued interest. The FASB has added elements for each policy choice. These elements should be consistently applied.  The rule identifies those facts that include accrued interest and then identifies if there are any facts that exclude accrued interest. If there are elements in both groups then the rule will report an error. The error will identify the largest group of facts and will report an error listing the concepts representing the smallest number of facts.  The rule will run for each year and each dimension and only ensures consistency within that context.

The elements have been identified as those elements including accrued interest and excluding accrued interest.  These have been defined as separate csv files that are read by the rule.  

In some cases filers provide a reconciliation between the amounts excluding accrued interest and the totals including accrued interest.  To avoid getting an error in this case the rule identifies if a calculation relationship has been provided between the amount including accrued interest and the amount excluding accrued interest.  If this calculation is present in the filing an error will not be produced.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule ensures that the correct elements are used in the investment schedule. Specifically it ensures that consistent elements are used for including and excluding accrued interest elements in the investment disclosure.

### Example rule message
The filing reports values that use the including accrued interest items and the excluding accrued interest items. Review the accounting policy elections to determine if you should be using the excluding accrued interest items or the including accrued interest items. 

Review the following elements excluding interest are appropriate given the majority of disclosure items are the opposite in regard to interest:

DebtSecuritiesAvailableForSaleExcludingAccruedInterest.
  
Period: 2021-12-31  
Dimensions: FinancialInstrumentAxis=MortgageBackedSecurities  
Unit: USD
  
Rule Element ID: 9861  
Rule version: 19.0.0 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 
The filing reports values that use the including accrued interest items and the excluding accrued interest items. Review the accounting policy elections to determine if you should be using the excluding accrued interest items or the including accrued interest items. 

Review the following {$setType} are appropriate given the majority of disclosure items are the opposite in regard to interest:
{$IncorrectElements.join(", ")}.
  
Period: {first($valuesReportedExcludingInterest).period}  
Dimensions: {first($valuesReportedExcludingInterest).dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {first($valuesReportedExcludingInterest).unit}\n  
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0141.9863|Varied|

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  