# Lease Cost Cannot be Negative  
Rule ID: DQC_0125  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 19, 2022
Effective date: May 1, 2022  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies those cases where the lease cost is negative and no Sublease Income​​ is reported. Lease costs can be negative in those cases where the lease is sub leased to another party and the sublease income exceeds the lease cost.

This rule uses the same logic as rule 15 except that it adds an additional check to ensure that the element SubleaseIncome has been reported in the same period.

## Problem solved by the rule


### Example rule message
LeaseCost has a value of -2,345,432 which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value. The preparer should consider if the value is input correctly for this assertion and, after considering the appropriateness of the input, if incorrect, input the amount as a positive (i.e., absolute) value and provide a negated label, or use the element SubleaseIncome.

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:
Period: 2020-12-31
Dimensions: 
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 9589
Rule version: 17.0.0

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
{$fact1.concept} has a value of {$fact1} which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value. The preparer should consider if the value is input correctly for this assertion and, after considering the appropriateness of the input, if incorrect, input the amount as a positive (i.e., absolute) value and provide a negated label, or use the element SubleaseIncome.

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:
Period :{$fact1.period}
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}
Unit : {$fact1.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0125.9589|LeaseCost|


© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  