# Cyber Taxonomy Disclosures
Rule ID: DQC_0202
Status: Final  
Release date: February 28, 2025  
Effective date: April 15, 2025

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The rule checks that companies are reporting cyber disclosures in 10-K and 20-F filings using the Cyber taxonomy.

**Conditions:**

The rule checks if the filing is a 10-K or 20-F filing and if at least one fact has been reported for an element included in the cyber taxonomy.  If no cyber elements have been used then the rule will report an error.

The rule will only operate on filings with a document period end date on or after December 15, 2024. 

## Problem Solved by the Rule

This rule ensures that mandatory cyber security disclosures have been made.

## Example Rule Message

The filing has not made any cyber security disclosures. At least one element related to cyber security should be used to report the cyber security disclosures in the filing. Please  add cyber security disclosures to the filing.  The following elements are available for cyber security disclosures:
{$concepts.join(', ')}


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0202.10702 |Cyber Taxonomy Concepts|
| DQC.IFRS.0202.10703|Cyber Taxonomy Concepts|



© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
