# Line Items Requiring the Asset Acquisition Axis  
Rule ID: DQC_0116  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company reports facts that are expected to include the Asset Acquisition Axis.  The rule flags an error when the following line item concepts are reported without the Asset Acquisition Axis and a member representing the actual acquisition:

1. AssetAcquisitionDateOfAcquisitionAgreement
1. AssetAcquisitionEffectiveDateOfAcquisition
1. AssetAcquisitionPriceOfAcquisitionExpected
1. AssetAcquisitionIndemnificationAssetAmount

An error is reported for every instance of a fact.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule ensures that filers identify the asset acquisition associated with each of the above line item concepts. Each of these concepts should **not** be reported in the default as the concept's meaning is ambiguous if not associated with a specific asset acquisition.

### Example rule message
The company has reported a value of  10 for the concept us-gaap:AssetAcquisitionPriceOfAcquisitionExpected. It is expected that this fact also uses the AssetAcquisitionAxis with a member indicating the asset acquisition that the fact was related to.  This fact must include the asset acquisition axis (AssetAcquisitionAxis).

The properties of this us-gaap:AssetAcquisitionPriceOfAcquisitionExpected fact are:

Period: 2019-11-09  
Dimensions: us-gaap:TypeOfArrangementAxis=svac:OptionalSharePurchaseAgreementMember  
Unit: USD/shares  

Rule Element ID: 9573
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The company has reported a value of  {$missingMember} for the concept {$missingMember.concept.name}. It is expected that this fact also uses the AssetAcquisitionAxis with a member indicating the asset acquisition that the fact was related to.  This fact must include the asset acquisition axis (AssetAcquisitionAxis).

The properties of this {$missingMember.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$missingMember.period}  
Dimensions: {$missingMember.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$missingMember.unit}\n  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0116.9573|Various|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  