# Interest Expense Operating and Nonoperating
Rule ID: DQC_0181  
Status: Final  
  
Release date: June 27, 2024  
Effective date: August 31, 2024  
  
## Rule function
These rules apply to the 2024 taxonomy only. The rules are intended to ensure that filers use the correct elements to record interest expense operating and interest expense nonoperating. In the 2024 US-GAAP taxonomy, the FASB added 2 new elements: *InterestExpenseNonoperating* and InterestExpenseOperating. The definition and label changed for the prior element *InterestExpense* (which is used by almost all companies on the face financials)- this is now represents both operating and non-operating.

These rules help ensure that filers  review the usage of the element *InterestExpense*, and replace it with the more specific operating or non-operating element.  

### Component 10180

This rule checks if the elements InterestExpense or InterestExpenseOperating are descendants of *NonoperatingIncomeExpense* in the calculation linkbase of the filer.  The elements  InterestExpense and InterestExpenseOperating include operating interest expense which should not be included as a component of *NonoperatingIncomeExpense*. The filer should use the element *InterestExpenseNonoperating* instead.
  
#### Example rule message

The concept InterestExpense is a descendant of NonoperatingIncomeExpense.  This element InterestExpense includes operating interest expense which should not be included as a component of NonoperatingIncomeExpense.  Select the nonoperating interest expense element InterestExpenseNonoperating instead of InterestExpense.  

Rule Element ID:  10180


### Component 10181

This rule checks if the elements InterestExpense or InterestExpenseNonoperating are descendants of *InterestIncomeExpenseNet* in the calculation linkbase of the filer.  The elements  InterestExpense and InterestExpenseNonoperating include non operating interest expense which should not be included as a component of *InterestIncomeExpenseNet*. The filer should use the element *InterestExpenseOperating* instead.

#### Example rule message

The concept InterestExpenseNonoperating is a descendant of InterestIncomeExpenseNet.  This element InterestIncomeExpenseNet represents operating interest income expense net. The element InterestExpenseNonoperating represents non operating interest and should  not be included as a component of InterestIncomeExpenseNet.  Select the operating interest expense element InterestExpenseOperating instead of InterestExpenseNonoperating.  

Rule Element ID: 10181               

### Component 10182

This rule checks if the elements InterestExpense or InterestExpenseNonoperating are descendants of *OperatingExpenses* in the calculation linkbase of the filer.  The elements  InterestExpense and InterestExpenseNonoperating include non operating interest expense which should not be included as a component of *OperatingExpenses*. The filer should use the element *InterestExpenseOperating* instead.


#### Example rule message
The concept *InterestExpenseNonoperating* is a descendant of *OperatingExpenses*.  The element *OperatingExpenses* represents operating expenses. The element InterestExpenseNonoperating represents non operating interest and should  not be included as a calculation component of *OperatingExpenses*.  Select the operating interest expense element *InterestExpenseOperating* instead of *InterestExpenseNonoperating*.  

Rule Element ID: 10182

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0181.10180 |InterestExpense,InterestExpenseOperating|
| DQC.US.0181.10181 |InterestExpense,InterestExpenseNonoperating |
| DQC.US.0181.10182 |InterestExpense,InterestExpenseNonoperating|




© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
