# Invalid Value for Percentage Items  
Rule ID: DQC_0091  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 15, 2020 
Effective date: September 1, 2020  

## Rule function
This rule identifies where filers have used a percentage item type (as defined in the US GAAP taxonomy) with a value that is greater than the value of 10.

The rule identifies those elements that have a num:percentItemType data type that are base taxonomy elements. (Not extension elements)  It then checks that the values reported are less than or equal to 10. If greater than 10 then an error is reported. The rule does not run on those elements which contain the text string "EffectiveIncomeTaxRate" in the concept name.

## Problem solved by the rule
The intent of the rule is to identify those percentage items that have a scaling issue associated with them. Percentage items with a value of 11% should be entered as 0.11 rather than 11.  If a value of 11 is entered to represent a percentage then an error will be flagged.

## Example rule message
The element PercentageOfPortfolio with a value of 11 has a value greater than a 1,000 percent.  Percentage items should have a value that are generally between 0 and 1. In XBRL a value of 1 is equal to 100%. Please review the value of the element to ensure that it is scaled correctly.  For example 200 basis points should be reported as 0.02.

Period: 2019-01 -01 to 2019-12-31  
Dimensions: none  
Unit: pure  
Decimals: -6

Rule Element ID: 9376  
Rule version: 12.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.

### General message template
The element {$fact1.concept.name} with a value of {$fact1} has a value greater than a 1,000 percent.  Percentage items should have a value that are generally between 0 and 1. In XBRL a value of 1 is equal to 100%. Please review the value of the element to ensure that it is scaled correctly.  For example 200 basis points should be reported as 0.02.

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  
Decimals: {$fact1.decimals}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.
   
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0091.9376|All elements with a num:percentItemType data type. Except tax reconciliation items.|  

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
