# US-GAAP Elements used in IFRS Filings 
Rule ID: DQC_0176  
Status: Public Exposure November 15 - December 15, 2023 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where filers have reported a US-GAAP element in an IFRS filing. The rule has two components.  The first checks where a US-GAAP fact has been reported and the second identifies where a US-GAAP element has been used in the presentation linkbase. The rule identifies those elements that have a namespace that contains the string ''http://fasb.org/us-gaap/'.
If an element has this namespace then an error will be produced for the concept used as well as any facts that have been reported that a use a primary concept from the US-GAAP namespace. 

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule identifies where filers have inadvertently included the US-GAAP taxonomy in an IFRS filing and have used incorrect elements.

### Example rule message 1
The filer has used the concept ProfitLoss with a value of 100 in the filing.  This is a us-gaap element and should be replaced with an IFRS element.

The properties of this us-gaap:ProfitLoss fact are:  

Period: 2024-01-01 to 2024-12-31  
Dimensions: 

Rule Element ID: 10118  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1

### Example rule message 2
The filer has used the US-GAAP concept {$concept.name} in the presentation tree of the filing please choose an IFRS concept as a replacement. 

Rule Element ID: 10118  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template 1
The filer has used the concept {$invalidFact.concept} with a value of {$invalidFact} in the filing.  This is a US-GAAP concept and should be replaced with an IFRS concept.

The properties of this {$invalidFact.concept.name} fact are:
Period :{$invalidFact.period}
Dimensions : {$invalidFact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}

Rule Element Id:{$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### General message template 2
The filer has used the US-GAAP concept {$concept.name} in the presentation tree of the filing please choose an IFRS concept as a replacement.

Rule Element Id:{$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}"

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.IFRS.0176.10118 | US GAAP Elements |
| DQC.IFRS.0176.10119 | US GAAP Elements |

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  