# Missing Extensible Enumeration Elements on the Schedule of Investments
Rule ID: DQC_0209  
Status: Public Exposure December 8, 2025 - January 22, 2026 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Public Review Release date: December 8, 2025  

## Rule Function

**Purpose:**

The purpose of Rule DQC_0209 is to ensure that all required extensible enumeration elements, such as `InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration`, are properly reported in the Schedule of Investments (SOI). This rule validates that investments disclosed on the `InvestmentIdentifierAxis` include the necessary extensible enumeration values to identify key attributes, such as the industry sector or other relevant classifications. By enforcing the inclusion of these elements, the rule ensures accurate, complete, and consistent tagging of investment data, preventing omissions that could lead to incomplete or unclear financial disclosures.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filings that include schedule of investment disclosures.

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The problem solved by Rule DQC_0209 is ensuring that all required extensible enumeration elements, such as InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration, are properly reported in the Schedule of Investments (SOI). Specifically, it addresses cases where investments disclosed on the InvestmentIdentifierAxis are missing key extensible enumeration values that identify important attributes, such as the industry sector or other classifications. Omitting these values can lead to incomplete, unclear, or inconsistent financial disclosures, making it difficult for users of the financial statements to fully understand the nature and classification of the investments. This rule ensures that all necessary extensible enumeration elements are included, promoting accurate and complete tagging of investment data.

## Example Rule Message # 1

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided a value of 17,105,928 for the InvestmentOwnedAtCost concept.  This is for the investment Mad View Place, LLC.  The filer has not reported a value for the InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration concept on this axis.  The values reported for the InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration concept should be reported to identify the industry that this investment is in.  Please ensure that these values are reported for each investment on the InvestmentIdentifierAxis.

Concept : us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtCost
Value: 17,105,928
Period: 2022-12-31
Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentIdentifierAxis= Mad View Place, LLC

Rule Element ID: 10730
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1

## Example Rule Message # 2

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided a value of 28,842,742 for the InvestmentOwnedAtCost concept.  This is for the investment ABC Factory, LLC.  The filer has not reported a value for the InvestmentIssuerNameExtensibleEnumeration concept on this axis.  The values reported for the InvestmentIssuerNameExtensibleEnumeration concept should be reported to identify the industry that this investment is in.  Please ensure that these values are reported for each investment on the InvestmentIdentifierAxis.

Concept : us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtCost
Value: 28,842,742
Period: 2023-06-30
Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentIdentifierAxis=ABC Factory, LLC

Rule Element ID: 10731
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1

## Example Rule Message # 3

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided a value of 22,902,215 for the InvestmentOwnedAtCost concept.  This is for the investment 100 Tyon DE LLC.  The filer has not reported a value for the InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration concept on this axis.  The values reported for the InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration concept should be reported to identify the industry that this investment is in.  Please ensure that these values are reported for each investment on the InvestmentIdentifierAxis.

Concept : us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtCost
Value: 22,902,215
Period: 2022-12-31
Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentIdentifierAxis=100 Tyon DE LLC

Rule Element ID: 10732
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1

## Example Rule Message # 4

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided a value of 18,288,969 for the InvestmentOwnedAtCost concept.  This is for the investment LONGSUF Property LLC.  The filer has not reported a value for the InvestmentIssuerGeographicRegionExtensibleEnumeration concept on this axis.  The values reported for the InvestmentIssuerGeographicRegionExtensibleEnumeration concept should be reported to identify the industry that this investment is in.  Please ensure that these values are reported for each investment on the InvestmentIdentifierAxis.

Concept : us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtCost
Value: 18,288,969
Period: 2022-12-31
Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentIdentifierAxis=LONGSUF Property LLC

Rule Element ID: 10733
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0209.10730 |EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis|
| DQC.US.0209.10731 |InvestmentTypeAxis|
| DQC.US.0209.10732 |InvestmentIssuerAffiliationAxis|
| DQC.US.0209.10733 |InvestmentIssuerNameAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
