# IFRS Transition Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0173  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function

This rule identifies concepts in the IFRS taxonomy that are being transitioned and that should not be used in filings after 2023-01-01. The rule identifies these concepts by looking for elements with a reference part with the following text:

"This element should be used to tag non-restated comparative information only."

The rule identifies all facts using these transition elements and flags an error.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule ensures that filers update the values associated with these elements in prior filings with the elements that are relevant in 2024.    

### Example rule message
A value was reported for UtilisationAllowanceAccountForCreditLossesOfFinancialAssets with a value of 123,456,000.  This is a transition element that should not be used after 2023-01-01. The end date of this fact is 2023-06-01. Please update the element to the appropriate element after adoption of the accounting standard.

The properties of this UtilisationAllowanceAccountForCreditLossesOfFinancialAssets fact are:  

Period: 2023-01-01 to 2023-06-01  
Dimensions:   

Rule Element ID: 10104  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
A value was reported for {$TranstionFact.concept.name} with a value of {$TranstionFact}.  This is a transition element that should not be used after 2023-01-01. The end date of this fact is {$TranstionFact.period.end}. Please update the element to the appropriate element after adoption of the accounting standard.

The properties of this {$TranstionFact.concept.name} fact are:  

Period: {$TranstionFact.period}  
Dimensions: {$TranstionFact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.IFRS.0173.10114 | Transition Elements |

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  