# Litigation Settlement Roll Forward Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0175  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedFromOtherParty or LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedToOtherParty concepts role up into an income statement account. These concepts represent changes in the balance of litigation receivable and payable and do not represent the gain or loss from settlement. In these cases use the elements LitigationSettlementGain or LitigationSettlementLoss should be used.


## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule identifies where the filer has used an incorrect element in their filing. This mis identification of the element can occur because the nature of the account roll forward element is similar to a gain or loss element that would appear in the income statement.

### Example rule message 
The concept(s) LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedFromOtherParty, LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedToOtherParty has been reported as a calculation descendant of the concept(s) ProfitLoss.  These concepts represent change in the balance of litigation receivable and payable and are not the gain or loss from settlement. In these cases use the elements LitigationSettlementGain or LitigationSettlementLoss.

Rule Element ID: 10130  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The concept(s) {$signIssueElements.join(', ').concept} has been reported as a calculation descendant of the concepts {$intersectionIncomeStatemt.join(', ').concept}.  These concepts represent change in the balance of litigation receivable and payable and are not the gain or loss from settlement. In these cases use the elements LitigationSettlementGain or LitigationSettlementLoss.
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0175.10130 |LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedFromOtherParty, LitigationSettlementAmountAwardedToOtherParty |

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  