# Inconsistent Calculation Roots  
Rule ID: DQC_0167  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has multiple root elements in a calculation network that should be under one root element. The rule checks the calculation root elements against the base GAAP taxonomy to determine if the root elements are calculation descendants of each other. The rule checks the Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for inappropriate root elements. This rule operates on the IFRS and US GAAP taxonomies.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to detect those filings where filers have not defined the calculation linkbase correctly for the Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income.    

### Example rule message
In the statement  003 - Statement - Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) the filer has defined multiple roots calculation elements that do not have a valid calculation tree defined.  

The root element IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeIncomeTaxesExtraordinaryItemsNoncontrollingInterest has sibling root elements of us-gaap:Revenues, us-gaap:IncomeLossFromContinuingOperations in the filing, which should appear as calculation descendants of IncomeLossFromContinuingOperationsBeforeIncomeTaxesExtraordinaryItemsNoncontrollingInterest. These sibling elements are defined as calculation descendants in the US GAAP taxonomy.  

Rule Element ID: 10100  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
In the statement  {$calcNetwork.role.description} the filer has defined multiple roots calculation elements that do not have a valid calculation tree defined. 
{ $root_string }  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0167.10099 | StatementOfFinancialPositionAbstract |
| DQC.US.0167.10100 | IncomeStatementAbstract |
| DQC.US.0167.10101 | StatementOfIncomeAndComprehensiveIncomeAbstract |
| DQC.IFRS.0167.10105 | StatementOfFinancialPositionAbstract |
| DQC.IFRS.0167.10106 | IncomeStatementAbstract |
| DQC.IFRS.0167.10107 | StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  