# Dividend Financial Statement Disclosures
Rule ID: DQC_0180  
Status: Public Exposure March 15 - April 15, 2024 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
These rules apply to the reporting of information related to the reporting of dividend disclosures in the face of the financial statements. The purpose of the rules is to get consistency of reporting and to support the Dividend guidance released.

### Component 10147

The first component of the rule checks that he filer has not included the concept *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare* as a component of the Income Statement.  This is a an instant item and does not reflect the dividends applicable for the reporting period.  The rule identifies where the element DividendsPayableAmountPerShare appears in the presentation linkbase of a financial statement and a value has been reported.

Filers should use the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* with the appropriate reporting period instead of the concept DividendsPayableAmountPerShare. The rule will only report an error if a value has been reported for the element *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare*.  The rule is intended to ensure that the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* is used to represent the expense per share on the financial statements.
  
#### Example rule message

The company has included the concept *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare* as a component of the Income Statement using the group 1000 - Statement - Income Statement . This is a an instant item and does not reflect the dividends applicable for the reporting period.  Filers should use the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* with the appropriate reporting period instead of the concept *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare*. The rule will only report an error if a value has been reported for the element *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare*.

Rule Element Id:10147

### Component 10148

This rule checks if dividends are declared for the period and that the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* is also be reported. This is a required disclosure if dividends are paid. The filer however could also use the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid* instead. This rule looks for dividends expense (*DividendsCommonStockCash*) and dividends payment (*PaymentsOfDividendsCommonStock*) in the filing and determines if the values are the same or different. If they are the same the rule will not run. 

If they are different this means that the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* should be reported as this is a required disclosure and would differ from the value of *CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid*. If the values are the same this element does not have to be used as the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid* could be used as a surrogate.

#### Example rule message

The filing has reported a value for *PaymentsOfDividendsCommonStock* with a value of  100 and a value for  DividendsCommonStockCash with a value of 120. Given these values are not the same the value of *CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* should be reported for the period.  If the values were the same the element *CommonStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid* could be used. 

The properties of the PaymentsOfDividendsCommonStock fact are:
Period :2020-07-01 to 2021-03-31
Dimensions : none
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10148               

### Component 10149

The third component is the same as the second component except that is applies to preferred stock.

This rule checks if dividends are declared for the period and that the element *PreferredStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* is also be reported. This is a required disclosure if dividends are paid. The filer however could also use the element *PreferredStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid* instead. This rule looks for dividends expense (*DividendsPreferredStockCash*) and dividends payment (*PaymentsOfDividendsPreferredStockAndPreferenceStock*) in the filing and determines if the values are the same or different. If they are the same the rule will not run. 

If they are different this means that the element *PreferredStockDividendsPerShareDeclared* should be reported as this is a required disclosure and would differ from the value of *PreferredStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid*. If the values are the same this element does not have to be used as the element *PreferredStockDividendsPerShareCashPaid* could be used as a surrogate.

### Component 10154
The fourth component checks if the concept *DividendsPayableAmountPerShare* has been included as a parenthetical disclosure.  The rule looks at those roles that are parenthetical and checks that the concept is not in the presentation linkbase.  The rule will only run if the concept is defined in the presentation linkbase and also contains a value. 

#### Component Logic
 This is a an instant item and does not reflect the dividends applicable for the reporting period.  Filers should use the element CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared with the appropriate reporting period instead of the concept DividendsPayableAmountPerShare.

#### Example rule message
The company has included the concept DividendsPayableAmountPerShare as a parenthetical disclosure using the group 1000 - Statement - Income Statement (Parenthetical).  This is a an instant item and does not reflect the dividends applicable for the reporting period.  Filers should use the element CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared with the appropriate reporting period instead of the concept DividendsPayableAmountPerShare. The rule will only report an error if a value has been reported for the element DividendsPayableAmountPerShare.

The value(s) reported are 100, 200

Period :2021-03-31
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10154


### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0180.10147 |DividendsPayableAmountPerShare|
| DQC.US.0180.10148 |CommonStockDividendsPerShareDeclared |
| DQC.US.0180.10149 |PreferredStockDividendsPerShareDeclared|
| DQC.US.0180.10154 |DividendsPayableAmountPerShare|



© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  