# Nil Values on Typed Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0074  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 10, 2018  
Effective date: January 1, 2019 

## Rule function 
This rule identifies when a nil value has been used inappropriately on a typed axis.  The following typed axis cannot have a value of nil.  

1. RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis

The rule reports an error for every fact that has a nil member associated with it.  

## Problem solved by the rule
A nil value is often added to a typed dimension to represent the default value. In the case of revenue recognition the FASB requires that the default value is represented without an axis with a nil value. In effect, adding a nil value creates alternative methods to define the same fact value. For this reason nil values on a typed dimension should be avoided.  

### Scope of the Rule
This rule applies to all US GAAP Taxonomies issued in 2017 and later.  

## Example rule message
The element us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligation with a value of 3,900,000,000 has been tagged with the axis RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis with a nil value as a member. This element should be reported without using this axis.  

The properties of this us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligation fact are:  
Period: 2018-03-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:ProductOrServiceAxis=f:ExtendedServiceContractsMember, us-gaap:StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis=f:AutomotiveSegmentMember, us-gaap:ConsolidationItemsAxis=us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember, us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis=None  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 7649  
Rule version: 7.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The element {$fact_with_nil_member.concept} with a value of {$fact_with_nil_member} has been tagged with the axis RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis with a nil value as a member. This element should be reported be reported without using this axis.  

The properties of this {$fact_with_nil_member.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$fact_with_nil_member.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact_with_nil_member.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact_with_nil_member.unit}

Rule Element ID: 7649  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0074.7649|DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
