# Dividend Disclosures in the Components of Equity (IFRS) 
Rule ID: DQC_0186   
Status: Final  
  
Release date: June 27, 2024  
Effective date: August 31, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule applies to dividend disclosures reported in the Statement of Changes in Equity using the *ComponentsOfEquityAxis*. The rule is comprised of nithreene components that are designed to determine that the filer has selected the correct elements in the Statement of Changes in Equity. 

The first component of the rule checks that dividend elements used with the retained earnings member are reported with a positive value.  The impact on retained earnings should reduce the retained earnings balance.  Because these a debit balances the values should be positive.

The second component checks if dividend line items have been used with the appropriate members of the components of equity axis. The rule identifies inappropriate members used  with the *ComponentsOfEquityAxis* and dividend line items.  The following members should not be used with dividend line items:
|Member| Dividend  Line Items |
|--- |--- |
|TreasurySharesMember | All dividend line items|
|AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember | All dividend line items|
|ReserveOfSharebasedPaymentsMember|All dividend line items|
|OtherReservesMember|All dividend line items|

The third component if a dividend line item has been used with a redundant class of stock axis. This identifies where a member should not be used with a dividend concept as the type of stock declared is already communicated with the concept name, and the dimensions provides no additional disaggregation. This rule checks the concepts *DividendsPaidOrdinarySharesPerShare* and *DividendsPaidOtherSharesPerShare*.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule identifies where the filer has used inappropriate combinations of dividend elements in the Statement of Shareholders Equity. These rules help filers to select the correct elements and to tag the values with the appropriate signs.  

### Example rule message 1

The filing includes a value for dividends using the concept DividendsPaid and the retained earnings member with a value of -977,000. Dividends must be deducted from retained earnings.  Please check that the sign of the dividends value is positive.

The properties of this  fact are:
Period :2022-01-01 to 2022-03-31
Dimensions : us-gaap:ComponentsOfEquityAxis=RetainedEarningsMember
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10170

### Example rule message 2

The filing includes a value for dividends using the concept DividendsPaid with a value of -1,000. This value is reported with the dimension member TreasurySharesMember.  This member should not be used with the concept DividendsPaid.  Please check the filing and select a more appropriate concept.

The properties of this  fact are:
Period :2020-01-01 to 2020-12-31
Dimensions : us-gaap:ComponentsOfEquityAxis=TreasurySharesMember
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10171

### Example rule message 3

The filing includes a  value of 20 for  dividends declared using the concept *DividendsPaidOrdinarySharesPerShare* and the dimension member of *OrdinarySharesMember* on the axis *ComponentsOfEquityAxis*. This member should not be used with this concept as the type of stock declared is already communicated with the concept name, and the dimensions provides no additional disaggregation. 

The properties of this  fact are:
Period :2022-03-02 to 2022-03-02
Dimensions : ClassesOfShareCapitalAxis=OrdinarySharesMember
Unit : USD/shares

Rule Element Id:10172

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.IFRS.0186.10170 |DividendsPaid, DividendsPaidOrdinaryShares, DividendsPaidOtherShares, DividendsRecognisedAsDistributionsToOwnersOfParentRelatingToPriorYears, DividendsRecognisedAsDistributionsToOwnersOfParentRelatingToCurrentYear, DividendsRecognisedAsDistributionsToOwnersOfParent, DividendsRecognisedAsDistributionsToNoncontrollingInterests|
| DQC.IFRS.0186.10171 | TreasurySharesMember, AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember, ReserveOfSharebasedPaymentsMember, OtherReservesMember|
| DQC.IFRS.0186.10172|ividendsPaidOrdinarySharesPerShare, DividendsPaidOtherSharesPerShare|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  