# Line Items Requiring the Business Acquisition Axis  
Rule ID: DQC_0112  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company reports facts that are expected to include the business acquisition axis.  The rule checks that the following line item concepts are reported with the business acquisition axis and a member representing the actual acquisition:

1. BusinessAcquisitionNameOfAcquiredEntity
2. BusinessAcquisitionPercentageOfVotingInterestsAcquired
3. BusinessAcquisitionDescriptionOfAcquiredEntity
4. BusinessAcquisitionSharePrice
5. BusinessCombinationReasonForBusinessCombination
6. BusinessAcquisitionRevenueReportedByAcquiredEntityForLastAnnualPeriod
7. BusinessAcquisitionDateOfAcquisitionAgreement1
8. BusinessAcquisitionEffectiveDateOfAcquisition1
9. BusinessAcquisitionPeriodResultsIncludedInCombinedEntity1
10. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsDescription
11. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsBasisForAmount
12. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsRangeOfOutcomesValueHigh
13. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsRangeOfOutcomesValueLow
14. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsRangeOfOutcomesInestimable
15. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsRangeOfOutcomesMaximumUnlimited
16. BusinessCombinationIndemnificationAssetsAmountAsOfAcquisitionDate
17. BusinessCombinationBargainPurchaseGainRecognizedDescription
18. BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireeDescription
19. BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireeFairValue1
20. BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireeIncludingSubsequentAcquisitionPercentage
21. BusinessCombinationStepAcquisitionEquityInterestInAcquireePercentage
22. BusinessAcquisitionEquityInterestIssuedOrIssuableDescription
23. BusinessAcquisitionEquityInterestIssuedOrIssuableBasisForDeterminingValue
24. BusinessAcquisitionEquityInterestsIssuedOrIssuableNumberOfSharesIssued
25. BusinessAcquisitionEquityInterestIssuedOrIssuableValueAssigned
26. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsDescription
27. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsBasisForAmount
28. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsRangeOfOutcomesValueHigh
29. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsRangeOfOutcomesValueLow
30. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsRangeOfOutcomesInestimable
31. BusinessCombinationContingentConsiderationArrangementsRangeOfOutcomesMaximumUnlimited

If the business acquisition axis is not associated with a fact using one of these elements then an error is reported. An error is reported for every instance of a fact.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule ensures that filers identify the business acquisition associated with each of the above line item concepts. Each of these concepts should **not** be reported in the default as the concept's meaning is ambiguous if not associated with a specific business combination.

### Example rule message
The company has reported a value of  10 for the concept us-gaap:BusinessAcquisitionSharePrice. It is expected that this fact also uses the BusinessAcquisitionAxis with a member indicating the business acquisition that the fact was related to.  This fact must include the business acquisition axis (BusinessAcquisitionAxis).

The properties of this us-gaap:BusinessAcquisitionSharePrice fact are:

Period: 2019-11-09  
Dimensions: us-gaap:TypeOfArrangementAxis=svac:OptionalSharePurchaseAgreementMember  
Unit: USD/shares  

Rule Element ID: 9561
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The company has reported a value of  {$missingMember} for the concept {$missingMember.concept.name}. It is expected that this fact also uses the BusinessAcquisitionAxis with a member indicating the business acquisition that the fact was related to.  This fact must include the business acquisition axis (BusinessAcquisitionAxis).

The properties of this {$missingMember.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$missingMember.period}  
Dimensions:  {$missingMember.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$missingMember.unit}\n  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0112.9561|Various|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  