# Plan Asset Dimensional Aggregation
Rule ID: DQC_0070  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 10, 2018  
Effective date: January 1, 2019 

## Rule function 
This rule aggregates the values of the Plan Asset categories across the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis for the element DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets. The rule aggregates the values of the members and compares the total to the reported total for the default value of the axis. The rule aggregates the descendant members of the axis but excludes those members that have a parent with a reported value.  This ensures that values associated with descendant members are not double counted.  

The rule is designed to run only on those tables that report the aggregate value of plan assets and does not attempt to aggregate the values on the level 3 reconciliation of plan assets. To achieve this the rule only adds the values of DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets that appear on a table with the following criteria:
  1. Exclude tables where the range axis is used as this indicates a target allocation table.  
  1. Exclude tables where any monetary duration primary items are present in the table.  
  1. Include tables where the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis is present.  
  1. Include tables where the primary concept DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets is present.  

In addition, the rule has a built in tolerance that is related to the decimals of the values compared. The rule takes the decimal value of the reported total and uses that as a base. This base is converted to an accuracy level and multiplied by 2 to give a tolerance level. For example, if the reported total has a decimals value of -6, this represents an accuracy of 1 million. This is multiplied by 2 to give 2 million.  When the values of the reported total and aggregate total are compared there is an allowable difference of 2 million.  If the reported total has decimals of infinite then the aggregated value must match exactly.  

Note that the decimals of the aggregated values are not tracked and maintained.  

If no value is reported for the total then the rule will not run. If the value of the total is reported as nil; then the rule will not run.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule identifies those cases where a filer has not nested the plan asset categories appropriately on the plan asset categories axis.  It will also identify where other disclosures are made in the footnote that should have used the element DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryAmount to report sub-components of plan assets that cannot be aggregated.  

## Example rule message
The concept DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets with a defaulted value of 286,539,000 is not equal to the aggregated value of the dimensionally qualified components on the axis DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis which has an aggregate value of 265,921,000 based on the data in the filing.  

The aggregated value is calculated by adding the members in the network 2405409 - Disclosure - Retirement Plans - Summary of Fair Values of Pension Plan (Details 8) with the uri http://www.abc.com/role/RetirementPlansSummaryOfFairValuesOfPensionPlanDetails8. The values of the calculation components are as follows:

USTreasuryBondSecuritiesMember --> 3,126,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis=us-gaap:USTreasuryBondSecuritiesMember

PartnershipMember --> 10,787,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:PartnershipMember

HedgeFundsGlobalOpportunityMember --> 6,604,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:HedgeFundsGlobalOpportunityMember

AllOtherCorporateBondsMember --> 231,710,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:AllOtherCorporateBondsMember

RealEstateMember --> 1,235,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:RealEstateMember

EquityFundsMember --> 1,314,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:EquityFundsMember

CashAndCashEquivalentsMember --> 11,145,000 --> us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis = us-gaap:CashAndCashEquivalentsMember

The value of a concept broken down by its components along the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis axis should  be equal to its component pieces. An error could occur for one of the following reasons:
  1. The values of the plan assets by category have been further disaggregated by additional dimensions such as geography. Plan Asset categories should not be dimensionally disaggregated and members should be defined for each security class reported. i.e. Equity Securities in the US should be represented as a single member.  
  1. The  default value of 286,539,000 is incorrectly totaled for DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets
  1. Not all dimension members or additional dimensions have been defined on the category axis DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis.  
  1. The filer has reported a sub component of plan assets that does not represent a complete breakdown of the total. In these cases the element DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryAmount should be used instead of the element DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets.  

This rule aggregates the value of member components located on the axis at the highest level of aggregation to avoid double counting in the event that the company uses a hierarchy of members.  

The properties of this us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets fact are:

Period: 2017-12-31
Dimensions:  
Unit: USD
Rule Element ID: 7645  
Rule version: 7.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The concept DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets with a defaulted value of {$FairValueOfPlanAssets} is not equal to the aggregated value of the dimensionally qualified components on the axis DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis which has an aggregate value of {$member_sum} based on the data in the filing. 
The aggregated value is calculated by adding the members in the network {$x.description} with the uri {$x.uri}. The values of the calculation components are as follows:
{$member_string}

The value of a concept broken down by its components along the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis axis should  be equal to its component pieces. An error could occur for one of the following reasons:
  1. The values of the plan assets by category have been further disaggregated by additional dimensions such as geography. Plan Asset categories should not be dimensionally disaggregated and members should be defined for each security class reported. i.e. Equity Securities in the US should be represented as a single member.  
  1. The  default value of {$FairValueOfPlanAssets} is incorrectly totaled for DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets 
  1. Not all dimension members or additional dimensions have been defined on the category axis DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis. 
  1. The filer has reported a sub component of plan assets that does not represent a complete breakdown of the total. In these cases the element DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryAmount should be used instead of the element DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets.  

This rule aggregates the value of member components located on the axis at the highest level of aggregation to avoid double counting in the event that the company uses a hierarchy of members.  

The properties of this {$FairValueOfPlanAssets.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$FairValueOfPlanAssets.period}  
Dimensions: {$FairValueOfPlanAssets.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$FairValueOfPlanAssets.unit}

Rule Element ID: 7645  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0070.7645|DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
