# Tax Reconciliation Items  
Rule ID: DQC_0154  
Status: Public Exposure  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks that tax reconciliation items have been selected correctly. The rule looks checks the following reconciliation items:

* Foreign-derived intangible income
* Global intangible low-taxed income
* Base erosion and anti abuse tax
* Foreign Income Tax Rate Differentials

The rule identifies the tax reconciliation disclosure by looking for the extended link role description with the string '- Disclosure -' and which contains one or more of the following elements:

* IncomeTaxReconciliationIncomeTaxExpenseBenefitAtFederalStatutoryIncomeTaxRate,
* EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationAtFederalStatutoryIncomeTaxRate,
* IncomeTaxExpenseBenefit,
* EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations

The rule then identifies all the numeric items in the disclosure and retrieves their labels. It then looks at the labels and matches them against label match strings (shown below).  If the string matches the expected element no error is shown, otherwise an error is shown.
| Label match strings | No match if contains the following | Expected elements |
| --- | --- | --- |
| foreign-derived intangible income, fdii, foreign derived intangible income | gilti, other, beat | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiPercent<br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiAmount |
| global intangible low-taxed income, gilti, global intangible low taxed income | fdii, other, beat | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationGiltiPercent<br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationGiltiAmount |
| base erosion and anti-abuse, base erosion and anti abuse, beat | fdii, other, gilti | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationBeatPercent<br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationBeatAmount |
| 'Foreign' **and** 'rate' **and** 'differential' | fdii, other, gilti, beat | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential<br><br>IncomeTaxReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential |

## Problem solved by the rule  
In many cases filers have used extensions for these elements as the first three elements were only added to the taxonomy in 2022.  Filers using these elements in the past had to create an extension.  This rule is intended to notify filers that a us-gaap element now exists for the extension element and that they should use it.    

### Example rule message 
The filer has reported a value for foreign-derived intangible income that is not using the element defined in the US-GAAP taxonomy.  The FASB has added elements for the FDII percentage amount and the FDII monetary amount in the 2022 taxonomy.  These elements are:

  1. EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiPercent
  2. EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiAmount

The  element us-gaap:EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationDeductionsExtraterritorialIncomeExclusion with the label "Foreign derived intangible income" has been used in the filing in the disclosure section "0000072 - Disclosure - Income Taxes - Effective Income After-Tax Rate (Details)" that should be updated to the appropriate  US-GAAP element listed above.

Rule Element ID: 10068  
Rule version: 21.0.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template  
The filer has reported a value for Foreign Income Tax Rate Differentials that is not using the element defined in the US-GAAP taxonomy.  The FASB has elements for Foreign Income Tax Rate Differential percentage amounts and monetary amounts in the taxonomy.  These elements are:

1. EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential
2. IncomeTaxReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential

The  element {$x} with the label \"{$label}\" has been used in the filing in the disclosure section \"{$incomeTaxNetwork.role.description}\" that should be updated to the appropriate  US-GAAP element listed above.

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0154.10068 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiPercent  <br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationFdiiAmount |
| DQC.US.0154.10069 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationBeatPercent  <br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationBeatAmount |
| DQC.US.0154.10070 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationGiltiPercent  <br><br>EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationGiltiAmount |
| DQC.US.0154.10071 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential  <br><br>IncomeTaxReconciliationForeignIncomeTaxRateDifferential |

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  