# Geographical Axis Used with Pension Line Items
Rule ID: DQC_0068  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 10, 2018  
Effective date: January 1, 2019 

## Rule function 
This rule identifies those cases where the filer has reported the StatementGeographicalAxis in conjunction with a line item in the Compensation Related Costs  and Retirement Benefits section of the taxonomy. The rule identifies those elements (Line Items) defined in the role http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/disclosure/CompensationRelatedCostsRetirementBenefits that have a value that has also used the StatementGeographicalAxis to define a value.  The rule will flag an error for every fact value that meets this condition.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule identifies those cases where filers have reported retirement benefit disclosures using the Statement Geographical axis. This axis should **not** be used for these disclosures. FASB guidance states that plans broken down by geography should use the "Retirement Plan Sponsor Location [Axis]". Where securities are broken down by location of the securities issuance then the members should be explicitly defined to incorporate the securities location, rather than define a geographical breakdown by axis.  

## Example rule message
The filing has used the StatementGeographicalAxis in conjunction with a line item DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets with a value 345,000  in the Compensation Related Costs  and Retirement Benefits section of the taxonomy. These line items should not use the StatementGeographicalAxis to report a fact. To identify the physical location of the securities a member should be created that indicates both the type of security and its issuance location.  i.e. EquityUSMmember

The properties of this DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets fact are:

Period: 2017-12-31  
Dimensions: StatementGeographicalAxis = US  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 7641  
Rule version: 7.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The filing has used the StatementGeographicalAxis in conjunction with the line item {$RetirementPlanItem.concept} with a value of {$RetirementPlanItem} in the Compensation Related Costs  and Retirement Benefits section of the taxonomy. These line items should not use the StatementGeographicalAxis to report a fact. To identify the physical location of the securities a member should be created that indicates both the type of security and its issuance location.  i.e. EquityUSMmember

The properties of this {$RetirementPlanItem.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$RetirementPlanItem.period}  
Dimensions: {$RetirementPlanItem.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$RetirementPlanItem.unit}

Rule Element ID: 7641  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID||
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0068.7641||

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
