# Invalid Member used on Disaggregation Of Income Statement Expense Caption Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0206  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 18, 2025  
Effective date: September 1, 2025

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The rule checks that filers have used an appropriate member on the Disaggregation Of Income Statement Expense Caption Axis.  The rule identifies the expense line items used on the Income Statement and checks if the typed members on the Disaggregation Of Income Statement Expense Caption Axis correspond to the expense items on the Income Statement.  If a match is not found an error is produced. The rule matches the typed dimension members that are QNames with the concepts used on the Income Statement by reading the concepts on the statements that are an expense. 

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filing types. 

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The rule is intended to identify that when the DisaggregationOfIncomeStatementExpenseCaptionIdentifierAxis is used to identify where an expense occurs that a corresponding line items actually is used on the income statement. 

## Example Rule Message

"The filing has reported a typed dimension member called Depreciation on the DisaggregationOfIncomeStatementExpenseCaptionIdentifierAxis. This typed dimension member does not have a corresponding expense caption included in the Income Statement. Please remove the member from the DisaggregationOfIncomeStatementExpenseCaptionIdentifierAxis or add a corresponding line item to the Income Statement.

Rule Element ID: 10721
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1



## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0206.10721 |DisaggregationOfIncomeStatementExpenseCaptionIdentifierAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
