# Interest Paid Net (Operating) Not on Cash Flow
Rule ID: DQC_0065  
Status:  Final  
Release date: October 4, 2017  
Effective date: June 1, 2018  

## Rule function

This rule identifies those cases where the filer has included the element InterestPaid as a presentation linkbase descendant of the element SupplementalCashFlowInformationAbstract but has not included the element InterestPaidNet and the element InterestPaidCapitalized as a presentation linkbase descendant of the element SupplementalCashFlowInformationAbstract. The rule reports a separate error for every default value (values with no dimensions) other than zero or nil when it is included in the instance document.  

## Problem solved by the rule

This rule supports the recommendations of the cash flow guidance. The FASB codification requires that filers who report their cash flows using the indirect method publish their interest paid during the period net of any interest paid for capital expenses. This represents the interest paid applicable to operating activities and the interest capitalized represents the interest paid applicable to investing activities. This rule helps to ensure that companies use the element InterestPaidNet instead of the element InterestPaid.  

## Example rule message

The Supplemental cash flow section has reported a value of 148,203 for the element InterestPaid but the element InterestPaidNet is not included in the supplemental cash flow section. Interest paid, net of the capitalized component must be reported in this section.  

The element InterestPaid includes capitalized interest. If this element has no capitalized interest component then use the element InterestPaidNet instead.  

The properties of this us-gaap:InterestPaid fact are:  
Period: 2016-12-01 to '2017-05-31'   
Dimensions: none   
Unit: USD   
Rule version: 5.0

## For Developers

The [Global Rule Logic](https://xbrl.us/dqc_0001) document contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template

The Supplemental cash flow section has reported a value of ${fact1.value} for the element InterestPaid but the element InterestPaidNet is not included in the supplemental cash flow section. Interest Paid Net of the capitalized component must be reported in this section.  

The element InterestPaid includes capitalized interest. If this element has no capitalized interest component then use the element InterestPaidNet instead.  

The properties of this ${fact1.name} fact are:  
Period: ${fact1.period}   
Dimensions: ${fact1.dimensions}   
Unit: ${fact1.unit}   
Rule version: ${ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index

The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

| Rule element ID | Element Name |
| --- | --- |
| DQC.US.0065.7502 | Interest Paid |

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
