# Opening and Closing Balances on the Statement of Shareholders Equity
Rule ID: DQC_0196
Status: Final  
Release date: February 28, 2025  
Effective date: April 15, 2025

## Rule Function
The rule identifies instant elements that have been used in the statement of Shareholders Equity that do not represent the opening and closing balances of Stockholders Equity. The rule identifies those instant facts that are used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis that do not represent and opening or closing balance of the monetary value of Shareholders Equity or the share value of Stockholders Equity for APIC, Retained Earnings, AOCI or NCI.

When the common stock member or preferred stock member has been used the rule will check that these facts actually appear in the Statement of changes in shareholders equity.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule identifies where filers use the more specific instant monetary elements in the Statement of Stockholders Equity, such as AdditionalPaidInCapital or RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficit.  The values using these elements should be tagged with the more generic elements such as StockholdersEquity. This ensures consistency across filings and removes duplicate ways of tagging the same fact. The rule also detects where extensions have been used to represent the opening and closing balances. Shareholders Equity is a standard element and should not be extended.

## Example Rule Message 1
aerc:StockholdersEquityIncludingMembersEquity has a value of 138,776 and has been used with the Common Stock Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and CommonStockMember. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of Common Stock.
If this extension element was used to represent the changes in equity, the period type should be changed to a duration. If it represents an opening or closing balance then the element should be removed and the standard element used instead.

The properties of this aerc:StockholdersEquityIncludingMembersEquity fact are:

Period: 2021-12-31

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:CommonStockMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10628


## Example Rule Message 2
 us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtFairValue has a value of 2,537,000 and has been used with the Common Stock Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and CommonStockMember. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of Common Stock.

The properties of this us-gaap:InvestmentOwnedAtFairValue fact are:

Period: 2022-09-30

Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentTypeAxis=pflt:InvestmentsInNonControlledNonAffiliatedPortfolioCompaniesMember, us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis=pflt:MediaMember, us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:CommonStockMember, srt:ScheduleOfEquityMethodInvestmentEquityMethodInvesteeNameAxis=pflt:MeritDirectHoldingsLPMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10629

## Example Rule Message 3
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficit has a value of 8,201,000,000 and has been used with a Retained Earnings Member.  This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of Retained Earnings.

The properties of this us-gaap:RetainedEarningsAccumulatedDeficit fact are:

Period: 2022-12-31

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10630


## Example Rule Message 4
us-gaap:TreasuryStockCommonValue has a value of 24,094,000,000 and has been used with the Treasury Stock Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and the Treasury Stock Member. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of Treasury.

The properties of this us-gaap:TreasuryStockCommonValue fact are:

Period: 2022-10-30

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:TreasuryStockCommonMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10631

## Example Rule Message 5
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapital has a value of 1,278,728,000 and has been used with the Additional Paid In Capital Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and the Additional Paid In Capital Member. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of APIC.

The properties of this us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapital fact are:

Period: 2022-02-26

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10632

## Example Rule Message 6
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTax has a value of -15,381,000 and has been used with the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Member. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of AOCI.

The properties of this us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeLossNetOfTax fact are:

Period: 2020-09-25

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:AccumulatedTranslationAdjustmentMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10633

## Example Rule Message 7
 us-gaap:MinorityInterest has a value of 196,000,000 and been used with the Noncontrolling Interest Member. This fact value has been used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis and the Noncontrolling Interest Member. This element is an instant element which is typically used to represent the opening and closing balance in the changes of equity. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of NCI.

The properties of this us-gaap:MinorityInterest fact are:

Period: 2021-03-31

Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementEquityComponentsAxis=us-gaap:NoncontrollingInterestMember

Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10635


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0196.10628 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = CommonStockMember|
| DQC.US.0196.10629 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = PreferredStockMember|
| DQC.US.0196.10630 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = RetainedEarnings|
| DQC.US.0196.10631 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = TreasuryStock|
| DQC.US.0196.10632 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember|
| DQC.US.0196.10633 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = AOCI|
| DQC.US.0196.10635 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = Noncontrolling Interest|

© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
