# General Text Block  
Rule ID: DQC_0107  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify where the text block "Schedule Of Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Assets By Major Class Text Block" is used with the business acquisition axis. This text block is the more general form of the text block "Schedule Of Finite Lived Intangible Assets Acquired As Part Of Business Combination Text Block". This text block is specifically associated with an acquisition.  The rule identifies where the text block "Schedule Of Acquired Finite Lived Intangible Assets By Major Class Text Block" is used with a value on the Business Acquisition Axis.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule ensures that filers consistently use the text block "Schedule Of Finite Lived Intangible Assets Acquired As Part Of Business Combination Text Block" to describe the finite lived intangible assets associated with an acquisition. This eliminates providing multiple ways to report the same fact.  The rule recommends that the more specific element is used. This makes it easier for users of the data to find the disclosures associated with the acquisition. This text block should still be used with the Business Acquisition Axis.   

### Example rule message  
The instance contains a text block using the concept us-gaap:ScheduleOfAcquiredFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTextBlock with a value of "Example text" which uses the axis BusinessAcquisitionAxis. This axis means that the acquired Intangible assets were acquired as part of a business combination. The filer should use the text block ScheduleOfFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAcquiredAsPartOfBusinessCombinationTextBlock.

The properties of this us-gaap:ScheduleOfAcquiredFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTextBlock fact are:

Period: 2020-02-01 to 2020-10-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:BusinessAcquisitionAxis=crm:VlocityIncMember  
Unit: None

RuleElement ID: 9557
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The instance contains a text block using the concept {$invalidTextBlock.concept.name} with a value of {$invalidTextBlock} which uses the axis BusinessAcquisitionAxis. This axis means that the acquired Intangible assets were acquired as part of a business combination. The filer should use the text block ScheduleOfFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsAcquiredAsPartOfBusinessCombinationTextBlock.

The properties of this {$invalidTextBlock.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$invalidTextBlock.period}  
Dimensions: {$invalidTextBlock.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$invalidTextBlock.unit}\n  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0107.9557|ScheduleOfAcquiredFiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassTextBlock|

  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
