# Opening and Closing Balances on the Statement of Shareholders Equity (IFRS)
Rule ID: DQC_IFRS_0196
Status: Final  
Release date: February 28, 2025  
Effective date: April 15, 2025

## Rule Function
The rule identifies instant elements that have been used in the statement of Shareholders Equity that do not represent the opening and closing balances of Stockholders Equity. The rule identifies those instant facts that are used with the StatementEquityComponentsAxis that do not represent and opening or closing balance of the monetary value of Shareholders Equity or the share value of Stockholders Equity for APIC, Retained Earnings, AOCI or NCI.

When the common stock member or preferred stock member has been used the rule will check that these facts actually appear in the Statement of changes in shareholders equity.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule identifies where filers use the more specific instant monetary elements in the Statement of Stockholders Equity.  The values using these elements should be tagged with the more generic elements such as `Equity`. This ensures consistency across filings and removes duplicate ways of tagging the same fact. The rule also detects where extensions have been used to represent the opening and closing balances. Shareholders Equity is a standard element and should not be extended.

## Example Rule Message 

{$fact1.concept} has a value of {$fact1} and has been used with the {$fact1.dimension(ComponentsOfEquityAxis).name}, in the disclosure {$SHE_Name.join(", ")}. This fact value has been used with the `ComponentsOfEquityAxis` and {$fact1.dimension(ComponentsOfEquityAxis).name}. This element should not be used to represent an opening or closing balance in the changes of equity.  Please remove the member from this fact or consider using a different element to represent the opening or closing balance of {$fact1.dimension(ComponentsOfEquityAxis).name}.
{$message}

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}
Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.IFRS.0196.10640 |StatementEquityComponentsAxis = *|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
