# Location Axis with a Single Member  
Rule ID: DQC_0137  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2022  
Effective date: September 1, 2022  
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company uses the location axes for either the Balance Sheet or the Income Statement to indicate where a value reported in the notes appears in the financial statement. In these cases the extensible enumeration elements should be used.  The Financial Statement location axis should be used when a value reported in the notes is spread across multiple line items in the financial statements. This rule identifies those cases where the location axis is used but only a single value appears for a concept and the specific location axis.
This rule only checks those facts using either the BalanceSheetLocationAxis or the IncomeStatementLocationAxis.

## Problem solved by the rule  
This rule is intended to pick up those cases where the location axis is used instead of the extensible enumeration element.  If a company uses the location axis it is expected that the filer will also use the extensible enumeration element to indicate which line item is impacted by the amount associated with the location axis.  The value of the member for the location axis will not correlate with the line item specifically.  The extensible enumeration makes it clear what line item the amount relates to.

### Example rule message
The element us-gaap:OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrent with a value of 47,431 has been used in the filing with the axis BalanceSheetLocationAxis.  This is the only fact reported with this element.  Rather than using the BalanceSheetLocationAxis the filer should use the extensible enumeration element to indicate the location of the item in the financial statements. In this case the element us-gaap:OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrentStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList should be used to identify the account where the element us-gaap:OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrent is included.
  
Period: 2020-03-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:BalanceSheetLocationAxis=us-gaap:AccountsPayableAndAccruedLiabilitiesMember  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: inf  

Rule Element ID: 9838    
Rule version: 18.0.0RC1  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 
The element {$FS_concept} with a value of {first($FS_Concept_Items)} has been used in the filing with the axis {$locationAxis}.  This is the only fact reported with this element.  Rather than using the {$locationAxis} the filer should use the extensible enumeration element to indicate the location of the item in the financial statements. In this case the element {$related_ext_enum} should be used to identify the account where the element {$FS_concept} is included. 
 
Period: {first($FS_Concept_Items).period}  
Dimensions: {first($FS_Concept_Items).dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {first($FS_Concept_Items).unit}  
Decimals: {first($FS_Concept_Items).decimals}  
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0137.9838|Elements using the BalalanceSheetLocationAxis and the IncomeStatementLocationAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  