# ASU 201613 Transition Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0171  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has reported ASU 201613 Transition elements in the filing. The rule will flag fact values with an end date greater than 2023-09-30 using one of these elements.  These elements are identified in the US-GAAP taxonomy as descendants of the element Asu201613TransitionAbstract. The rule however makes an exception for the following elements that can continue to be used:

 *  FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesIndividuallyEvaluatedForImpairment1, 
 *  FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesCollectivelyEvaluatedForImpairment, 
 *  ImpairedFinancingReceivableAverageRecordedInvestment,
 *  ImpairedFinancingReceivableWithNoRelatedAllowanceAverageRecordedInvestment,
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesInUnrealizedLossPositionsQualitativeDisclosureNumberOfPositions
 *  FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesIndividuallyEvaluatedForImpairment1
 *  FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesCollectivelyEvaluatedForImpairment
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPositionTwelveMonthsOrLongerFairValue
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPositionLessThanTwelveMonthsFairValue
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPosition12MonthsOrLongerAccumulatedLoss
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPositionLessThan12MonthsAccumulatedLoss
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPositionFairValue
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesContinuousUnrealizedLossPositionAccumulatedLoss
 *  HeldToMaturitySecuritiesInUnrealizedLossPositionsQualitativeDisclosureNumberOfPositions
 *  FinancingReceivableModificationsNumberOfContracts2
 *  ScheduleOfUnrealizedLossOnInvestmentsTableTextBlock
 *  UnamortizedLoanCommitmentAndOriginationFeesAndUnamortizedDiscountsOrPremiums
 
## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule ensures that filers update the values associated with these elements in prior filings with the elements that are relevant in 2024.    

### Example rule message
The element ImpairedFinancingReceivableRelatedAllowance with a value of  345,000 has been used in the filing.  This element was transitioned as part of ASU201613. Replace this element with a valid element from the US GAAP taxonomy.

The properties of this ImpairedFinancingReceivableRelatedAllowance fact are:  

Period: 2023-12-31  
Dimensions:  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10104  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The element {$TransFact.concept.name} with a value of  {$TransFact} has been used in the filing.  This element was transitioned as part of ASU201613. Replace this element with a valid element from the US GAAP taxonomy.

The properties of this {$TransFact.concept.name} fact are:  

Period: {$TransFact.period}  
Dimensions: {$TransFact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$TransFact.unit}  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0171.10104 | Transition Elements |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  