# Incorrect Period Reported  
Rule ID: DQC_0146  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 25, 2023  
Effective date: March 31, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks that period reported for the 10-K or 20-F is a valid annual period. The rule identifies the concepts used in the Income Statement and identifies those facts that match the DocumentPeriodEndDate start date and end date.  It then identifies those durational periods that have a matching end date but a different start date.  If the number of annual periods is less than the total count of other durations on the financial statements then an error is returned.  

The rule will not run in those cases where the filer has indicated that the report is a transition period, is the year of inception or is a successor or predecessor entity.  

The filer can indicate these conditions by performing the following:
  - Define an extension element called TransitionReport with a value.
  - Define an extension element Called YearOfInception with a value.
  - Define a value of true for the dei element DocumentTransitionReport.
  - Define a value of true for the us-gaap element FinancialDesignationPredecessorAndSuccessorFixedList.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that filers do not enter the incorrect start date on the values reported in the financial statements. 

### Example rule message
The company has reported a 10-K or 20-F but the majority of the values reported on the Income Statement are for a period other than a year.  Please check that the values used on the Income Statement represent a full year for the required reporting period.

Rule Element ID: 9870  
Rule version: 20.0.0 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 
The company has reported a 10K but the majority of the values reported on the Income Statement are for a period other than a year.  Please check that the values used on the Income Statement represent a full year for the required reporting period.  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0146.9870|Varied|

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  