# Standard Dividend Member Name
Rule ID: DQC_0193
Status: Final  
Release date: June 27, 2024  
Effective date: August 31, 2024
  
## Rule Function
This rule checks if the DividendMember extension element defined by the filer conforms to the syntax defined in the dividends guidance. This is as follows:
  
- The first character should be either an O or an S to represent a regular or special  dividend.
- The next 4 characters should represent the year that the dividend is applicable. i.e. 2025
- The next one to two characters should represent the period the dividend applies to, such as Q1 for quarterly dividends, H2 for half year dividend or M3 for the 3rd monthly dividend.  Allowable values are either Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, H1, H2, M1, M2, M3 to M13. If it is an annual divided then the character A is required.
- If further disaggregation is needed  an additional  alphabetic/numeric value can be added after the period such as PreferredA
- The member name must conclude with the string DividendMember.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule is intended to ensure that the same member is not used for different dividend events.

## Rule Message
### Example rule message 
The filing includes a member on the dividends axis called  QuarterlyDividendMember. The DividendsAxis member should confirm to the following syntax.  
- The first character should be either an O or an S to represent an ordinary or special  dividend.
- The next 4 characters should represent the year that the dividend is applicable. i.e. 2025
- The next one to two characters should represent the period the dividend applies to, such as Q1 for quarterly dividends, H2 for half year dividend or M3 for the 3rd monthly dividend.  Allowable values are either Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, H1, H2, M1, M2, M3 to M13. If it is an annual divided then the character A is required.
- If further disaggregation is needed addition alphabetic/numeric can be added after the period such as PartialPayment
- The member name must conclude with the string DividendsMember.
The form is as follows [O or S],YEAR,PERIOD,Optional alpha characters, the string Member. So ordinary quarterly dividends for Q3 in 2025 would be as follows:
O2025Q3DividendsMember. An annual dividend for 2026 would be O2026ADividendsMember.

The label of the member can include any additional details.

Rule Element Id: 10153
Rule version: 23.13


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0193.10153 |DividendsAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
