# Facts without Hypercubes  
Rule ID: DQC_0166  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has created facts with dimensions that do not fit into a hypercube defined in the extension taxonomy.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to detect those filings where the hypercube is incorrectly defined or facts that have been created with incorrect dimensions and members.    

### Example rule message
A value of 0.23 was reported for the concept us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationPercentage.  This value has dimensions of  us-gaap:RelatedPartyAxis=RelatedPartyMember but this fact is not included in a dimensional table ( hypercube). All dimensional facts should be included in a hypercube.  

The properties of this us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationPercentage fact are:  
Period: 2022-09-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:RelatedPartyAxis=RelatedPartyMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 10090  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC6

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
A value of {$fact2} was reported for the concept {$fact2.concept.name}.  This value has dimensions of  {$fact2.dimensions.join(', ','=')} but this fact is not included in a dimensional table ( hypercube). All dimensional facts should be included in a hypercube.  

The properties of this {$fact2.concept.name} fact are:  
Period: {$fact2.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact2.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact2.unit}  
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0166.10090 | Various |
| DQC.IFRS.0166.10112 | Various |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  