# Cash Flow Opening and Closing Balances
Rule ID: DQC_0057  
Status:  Final  
Release date: October 4, 2017  
Effective date: June 1, 2018  

## Rule function

This rule tests when at least one of the following elements is not used in the cash flow statement to represent the opening and closing balances for each period reported:

1.  Filings that have adopted ASU-2016-18
    a.  CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalents
    b.  CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsIncludingDisposalGroupAndDiscontinuedOperations
2.  Filings that have not yet adopted ASU-2016-18
    a.  CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValueIncludingDiscontinuedOperations
    b.  CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue
    c.  CashCashEquivalentsAndFederalFundsSold
    d.  Cash
    e.  CashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue
    f.  CashAndDueFromBanks

This rule identifies those filings where at least one of these elements do not appear in the cash flow presentation trees defined by the filer for the cash flow statement. The rule identifies a cash flow presentation tree (extended link role) role as follows:

1.  The link role definition includes the string "- Statement" and
2.  The presentation link role uri excludes the case insensitive string "parenthetical" and
3.  The extended link role for the presentation tree contains the abstract element _StatementOfCashFlowsAbstract_ and
4.  The presentation extended link role uri contains the case insensitive string "cashflow". I.e., "http://abc.com/role/StatementOfCashFlows"

## Problem solved by the rule

This rule identifies where standard elements representing the opening and closing balances have not been reported for a cash flow statement. The lack of these elements indicates that an inappropriate element has been used or an extension element has been created to represent the opening and closing values for cash. These elements are used by data users to determine that that change in cash flows has been calculated correctly and to determine the aggregate cash position of the entity.  

## Example rule message

One of the following elements:

*   CashAndDueFromBanks,
*   CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsIncludingDisposalGroupAndDiscontinuedOperations,
*   CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValueIncludingDiscontinuedOperations,
*   CashAndCashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue,
*   CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalents,
*   CashCashEquivalentsAndFederalFundsSold,
*   CashEquivalentsAtCarryingValue,
*   Cash

should appear as the opening and closing balance in the cash flow statement using the group http://www.cmc.com/role/CondensedConsolidatedStatementsOfCashFlowsUnaudited.  

Instead the following balance items have been used in this statement CashCashEquivalentsAndShortTermInvestments. Depending if ASU-2016-18 has been adopted at least one of the opening and closing balance items listed must be used in the cash flow statement.  
  
Rule version: 5.0

## For Developers

The [Global Rule Logic](https://xbrl.us/dqc_0001) document contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template

One of the following elements ${elementNames.name} should appear as the opening and closing balance in the cash flow statement using the group ${nrole}.  

Instead the following balance items have been used in this statement ${balanceElements}. Depending if ASU-2016-18 has been adopted at least one of the opening and closing balance items listed must be used in the cash flow statement.  
  
Rule version: ${ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index

The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

| Rule Element ID |
| --- |
| DQC.US.0057.7494 |

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
