# Invalid Member used on Balance Sheet Location Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0205
Status: Public Exposure April 15, 2024 - May 31, 2025 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Public Review Release date: April 15, 2025  
Effective date: TBD

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The rule checks that filers have used an appropriate member on the balance sheet location axis.  The rule identifies the line items used on the balance sheet and checks if the members on the balance sheet location axis correspond to the items on the balance sheet.  If a match is not found an error is produced. The rule matches the taxonomy defined members to line items in the US GAAP taxonomy.  In those cases where a company creates an extension member, the match is made by removing the word `Member` from the domain member and checking that the resulting name matches a line item used on the balance sheet.  The parent-child relationship is used to identify all the items on the balance sheet.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filing types. 

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The rule is intended to identify that when the BalanceSheetLocationAxis is used to identify where an amount appears in the balance sheet that a corresponding line items actually is used on the balance sheet. 

## Example Rule Message 1

"The filer has used the BalanceSheetLocationAxis member ObligationsUnderParticipationAgreementsMember in the filing. This member is used to identify the location of the line item in the balance sheet. However, the concept ObligationsUnderParticipationAgreements does not appear in the face financial statements. Either update the value of the BalanceSheetLocationAxis member ObligationsUnderParticipationAgreements with a Member that has the same name as the line item with the suffix 'Member' or add the line item ObligationsUnderParticipationAgreements to the presentation and calculation linkbase in the balance sheet.

Rule Element Id:10720
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1



## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0205.10720 |BalanceSheetLocationAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
