# Calculation in the Parenthetical Disclosure  
Rule ID: DQC_0169  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has defined a calculation in the parenthetical disclosure network of a Statement.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to detect those filings where a calculation is defined in the parenthetical disclosure.  In many cases if the calculation does not work snippets of the calculation are included in the parenthetical section of the extension taxonomy. This rule requires that the entire calculation components of the statement are reported together.    

### Example rule message
The parenthetical network 0300 - Statement - Balance Sheet (Parenthetical) contains calculations. The calculation uses the following concepts:

Assets, AssetsCurrent, AssetsNoncurrent.

These monetary concepts should not be defined in the parenthetical section of the filing and should be included in the statement calculation.

Rule Element ID: 10102  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The parenthetical network {$network.role.description} contains calculations. The calculation uses the following concepts:
{$concepts.join(' /n')}

These monetary concepts should not be defined in the parenthetical section of the filing and should be included in the statement calculation.

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0169.10102 | Taxonomy |

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  