# Balance Sheet Numerical Scaling
Rule ID: DQC_0192 
Status: Public Exposure July 15 - August 15, 2024 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule Function
This rule checks if the scale used on monetary amounts reported on the balance sheet is correct.  The rule identifies filings that are either Large Accelerated Filers or Accelerated Filers and checks if no value in the balance sheet exceeds 1,000,000. If no value exceeds 1,000,000 then an error is reported.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule is intended to identify where a filer has used an incorrect scale for the entire filing.
## Rule Message
### Example rule message 
The filer is a Large Accelerated Filer or an Accelerated filer, based on the value provided for EntityFilerCategory.  The balance sheet of the filing does not contain a single value that is greater than 1 million USD.  The largest value reported on the balance sheet is for Assets with a a value of 123,000 for the period 2024-12-31. The inline scale used for this value is 3.

Please review the filing to ensure that the appropriate scale has been included for the values used in the balance sheet and remainder of the filing.

The properties of this  fact are:
Concept : Assets
Period :2024-12-31
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id: 10620
Rule version: 25.00


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0192.10620 |Various|


© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
