# Durational Aggregation  
Rule ID: DQC_0093  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 15, 2020 
Effective date: September 1, 2020  

## Rule function
This rule identifies where the values of a durational element for a series of periods of time do not aggregate to the value representing the aggregated period in the instance. The rule matches sub periods based on the start date and end date into a contiguous period of time. The rule then matches the calculated contiguous period to equivalent periods reported in the instance. For example the rule will check that the values for Q1 + Q2 for any durational element is equal to the value for that element for the first half of the year.  The rule works for all base taxonomy elements and time periods reported in the instance.

The rule incorporates a tolerance factor based on the lowest decimals of the aggregated values and its addends.  This means if one number is accurate to -6 (million) then there can be a variance between the aggregated number and its components. The rule amplifies the difference for possible rounding by multiplying the allowable difference by a factor of 2. The following table depicts how this works.

|Value of total|Value of Addends|Decimal of total|Lowest decimal of addends|Decimal tolerance factor|Factor Rate|Tolerance|Is error|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |
|550,000|550,345|-3|0|1000|2|2,000|No|
|550,000|550,345|0|0|0|2|0|Yes|
|550 million|551 million|-6|-6|1,000,000|2|2 million|No|
|550 million|551 million|-3|-6|1,000,000|2|2 million|No|
|550 million|551 million|-5|-3|100,000|2|200,000|Yes|

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule addresses inconsistencies in tagging the same element from period to period.  The rule flags the following data quality errors:

    1. Values tagged with 0 instead of being tagged with nil.
    2. Inconsistent addition across periods
    3. Two way elements tagged with the inappropriate sign.
    4. Inappropriate element selection across periods.
    5. Inappropriate decimals.

## Example rule message
Sum of the cumulative periods of 360,541,000 for ifrs-full:IncreaseDecreaseThroughExerciseOfOptions does not match the reported total of 36,064,000, a difference of 324,477,000.

Period values are:

        2016-01-01 to 2016-12-06        35,367,000         Decimals: -3
        2016-12-07 to 2016-12-31        325,174,000        Decimals: -3

This rule takes into account possible rounding of values across periods and the decimals associated with each fact. This rule used a tolerance of 2,000 which is calculated by taking the lowest decimal value used in the calculation of -3. If there is a difference between the sum of the periods and the aggregate value reported the difference may be due to incorrect decimals associated with the individual fact values. The filer should check that the fact values do not have a decimal value that implies a higher level of accuracy than intended.

The rule excludes elements in the base taxonomy that cannot be aggregated such as an average, maximum or minimum value.

The properties of this ifrs-full:IncreaseDecreaseThroughExerciseOfOptions fact are:

Period: 2016-01-01 to 2016-12-31  
Dimensions: ifrs-full:ComponentsOfEquityAxis=ifrs-full:SharePremiumMember  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: -3

Rule Element ID: 9525  
Rule version: 12.0.0RC1 

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.

### General message template

Sum of the cumulative periods of {$sum-periods} for {$fact1.concept.name} does not match the reported total of {$fact1}, a difference of {abs($sum-periods - $fact1)}.

Period values are:  
{$period-message}  

This rule takes into account possible rounding of values across periods and the decimals associated with each fact. This rule used a tolerance of {$tolerance} which is calculated by taking the lowest decimal value used in the calculation of {$min-decimals}. If there is a difference between the sum of the periods and the aggregate value reported the difference may be due to incorrect decimals associated with the individual fact values. The filer should check that the fact values do not have a decimal value that implies a higher level of accuracy than intended.

The rule excludes elements in the base taxonomy that cannot be aggregated such as an average, maximum or minimum value.

The properties of this {$fact1.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  
Decimals: {$fact1.decimals}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.
   
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.IFRS.0093.9525|Base taxonomy elements only|  

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
