# Income Tax Authority Axis with Invalid Members
Rule ID: DQC_0203
Status: Public Exposure April 15, 2024 - May 31, 2025 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Public Review Release date: April 15, 2025  
Effective date: TBD

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The rule checks that filers do not report values using the DomesticCountryMember, ForeignCountryMember with the IncomeTaxAuthorityAxis.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filing types. 

## Problem Solved by the Rule

Fact values are not intended to be used in the instance document, for broad categories of domestic or foreign jurisdictions,  instead the specific tax jurisdiction is intended to tag the information. 

## Example Rule Message

The element Assets with a value of 3,125,623 has been used with the axis IncomeTaxAuthorityAxis and the member DomesticCountryMember. The DomesticCountryMember element is not intended to be used in the instance document, instead the specific tax jurisdiction is intended to tag the information. 

Concept : Assets
Value : 3,125,623
Period : 2024-12-31
Dimensions : IncomeTaxAuthorityAxis = DomesticCountryMember

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0203.10708 |IncomeTaxAuthorityAxis|



© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
