# Year List Items Used with Tax Period Axis  
Rule ID: DQC_0152  
Status: Public Exposure Nov 15 - December 31, 2023 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has used a concept with a data-type of gYearListItemType  with the axis TaxPeriodAxis. When using an element with this data-type all the tax years should be included in a list in a single context. This datatype eliminates the need to break out the tax years using a dimension. The rule identifies every fact that uses a concept with this data-type and the TaxPeriodAxis.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to detect those filings where the modeling of the filing does not follow the FASB guidance.    

### Example rule message
The concept OpenTaxYear has been reported with a value of 2021, 2022, 2023 and has used the Tax Period [AXIS].  This fact should not be used with this axis.  If there are multiple tax years to be reported they should all be included in the concept OpenTaxYear.

Concept Name : OpenTaxYear  
Period : 2022-01-01 to  2022-12-31  
Dimensions : TaxPeriodAxis=LatestTaxYearMember

Rule Element Id:10116
Rule version: 23.0.0

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The concept ```{$factsWithGYearList.name}``` has been reported with a value of ```{$factsWithGYearList.join(',')}``` and has used the Tax Period [AXIS].  This fact should not be used with this axis.  If there are multiple tax years to be reported they should all be included in the concept ```{$factsWithGYearList}```.

Concept Name : ```{$factsWithGYearList.name}```  
Period : ```{$factsWithGYearList.period}```  
Dimensions : ```{$factsWithGYearList.dimensions.join(', ','=')}```  

Rule Element Id:```{$ruleId}```  
Rule version: ```{$ruleVersion}```

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0152.10116 | Various |


© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  