# ECD Rule 10b51 Flag Disclosures  
Rule ID: DQC_0170  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has not reported the ECD Rule 10b51 Flag Disclosures that should be reported with a value of false if they had no such disclosures to make. The rule identifies if this flag is not reported in 10-K filings with a document period end date after 2023-12-31. The rule checks if the following 4 flags defined in the ECD taxonomy are missing:

 *  Rule10b51ArrAdoptedFlag,
 *  NonRule10b51ArrAdoptedFlag,
 *  Rule10b51ArrTrmntdFlag,
 *  NonRule10b51ArrTrmntdFlag

## Problem solved by the rule  
The SEC ECD taxonomy requires that these 4 flags are tagged even if the values are false. This rule checks that this disclosure has been made.    

### Example rule message
The element Rule10b51ArrAdoptedFlag is a required disclosure after 12/21/2023. Please report the boolean flag value for this element.  

Rule Element ID: 10103  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The element {$flag} is a required disclosure after 12/21/2023. Please report the boolean flag value for this element.  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0170.10103 | Rule10b51ArrAdoptedFlag,
NonRule10b51ArrAdoptedFlag,
Rule10b51ArrTrmntdFlag,
NonRule10b51ArrTrmntdFlag |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  