# IFRS Non Positive Items  

## Rule description

This rule identifies where reports include a positive value for an item that should be negative.  The rule consists of two sub components: The first checks that values using the Elimination Of Intersegment Amounts Member have a negative value. The second checks that certain elements used with the Carrying Amount Accumulated Depreciation Amortisation And Impairment And Gross Carrying Amount Axis and Accumulated Depreciation Members always have a negative value.


## Problem solved by the rule
The intent of the rule is to identify those facts that have been entered with a positive value when the value in fact should have been a negative amount.

## Rule description 

### Part 1

Let **non-positive excluded axis/member pairs** be the following set of axis/member combinations:

* CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis
    * AccumulatedImpairmentMember
    * AccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentMember
    * AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember
* RetrospectiveApplicationAndRetrospectiveRestatementAxis
    * IncreaseDecreaseDueToChangesInAccountingPolicyAndCorrectionsOfPriorPeriodErrorsMember
    * FinancialEffectOfChangesInAccountingPolicyMember
    * IncreaseDecreaseDueToChangesInAccountingPolicyRequiredByIFRSsMember
    * IncreaseDecreaseDueToVoluntaryChangesInAccountingPolicyMember
    * FinancialEffectOfCorrectionsOfAccountingErrorsMember
* FinancialEffectOfTransitionFromPreviousGAAPToIFRSsAxis
    * EffectOfTransitionToIFRSsMember
* RedesignationAxis
    * RedesignatedAmountMember
* FairValueAsDeemedCostAxis
    * AggregateAdjustmentToCarryingValueReportedUnderPreviousGAAPMember
* DepartureFromRequirementOfIFRSAxis,
    * IncreaseDecreaseDueToDepartureFromRequirementOfIFRSMember
* ComponentsOfEquityAxis
    * TreasurySharesMember
* TypesOfRisksAxis
    * RiskDiversificationEffectMember
* AmountsArisingFromInsuranceContractsAxis
    * ReinsurersShareOfAmountArisingFromInsuranceContractsMember
* NetDefinedBenefitLiabilityAssetAxis
    * PresentValueOfDefinedBenefitObligationMember
    * PlanAssetsMember
    * EffectOfAssetCeilingMember

Let **non-positive sub-string exclusions** be the following set of strings:

* adjust
* consolidat
* netting
* reconcili
* reclass
* change
* increasedecreas

Let **excluded axes** be as defined in DQC0080.

For each fact with a concept in the list of **non-negative concepts** defined in DQC.IFRS.0080, and a value of EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember for the SegmentConsolidationItemsAxis, the value MUST be less than or equal to zero unless:

* the fact has a dimension with a non-default value that is in the set of **non-positive excluded axis/member pairs**; or
* the fact has a dimension and member that is in the set of **excluded axes**; or 
* any string in **non-positive sub-string exclusions** is a case-insensitive substring of the local name of any non-default dimension member applied to the fact.

### Part 2

The second rule takes a list of asset related elements and checks that any values reported for these elements and the axis  CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis used with any of the following members is always negative:

  1. AccumulatedImpairmentMember
  1. AccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentMember
  1. AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember

This rule also excludes those facts that have additional dimensions and members that are known to flip the sign of a value.  This list of axis members and axis member combinations is the same list that is used for the non neg rule DQC.IFRS.0080.

## Example rule message
**Part 1**
DecreaseDueToHarvestBiologicalAssets has a value of 25,000,000 which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember. 

Period: 2019-01 -01 to 2019-12-31  
Dimensions: SegmentConsolidationItemsAxis = EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: -6

Rule Element ID: 9523  
Rule version: 16.0

**Part 2**
ifrs-full:IntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill has a value of 34,156,000 which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the dimensions ifrs-full:CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis=ifrs-full:AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember.

The properties of this ifrs-full:IntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill fact are:

Period: 2017-12-31  
Dimensions: ifrs-full:CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis=ifrs-full:AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 9524  
Rule version: 16.0 

### General message template
**Part 1**
{$fact1.concept.name} has a value of {$fact1} which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember. 

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

**Part 2**
{$fact1.concept.name} has a value of {$fact1} which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the dimensions {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}. 

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.IFRS.0092.9523|[All Non Neg IFRS Elements](../DQC_IFRS_0080/DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx?raw=true)| 
|DQC.IFRS.0092.9524|[Asset Elements](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/dqc_us_rules/resources/DQC_IFRS_0091/dqc_0091_ifrs_2018_concepts.csv)|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
