# Trading Symbol  
Rule ID: DQC_0162  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: December 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has used an invalid or inconsistent trading symbol.  The rule checks that the trading symbol does not include invalid characters, identifies if the symbol is not applicable, and the symbol is upper case. 

The rule flags an error if the trading symbol includes the characters such as " , * ,&, @,%, !, ^,# and $.  The rule also checks if the text used to indicate if a trading symbol is not applicable is appropriate.  If any of the following strings are used 'N/A', 'n/a', '-', 'NONE', 'NOT APPLICABLE' then an error message is displayed. The rule will flag if any of the letters comprising the symbol are lower case. Finally the rule checks that if the symbol NA is used then the cik of the filing must be 0001872302.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that filers use consistent trading symbols from filing to filing and that inappropriate symbols are not used so that users of the data can effectively search for filings based on the trading symbol.    

### Example rule message 
The filer has used an invalid trading symbol of N/A. If a trading symbol is not applicable then use the no trading symbol flag element 'dei:NoTradingSymbolFlag'. The trading symbol cannot contain special characters such as ",@,*,&,!,$, %,#,^ or Invalid Tickers such as N/A, n/a, -, NONE, NOT APPLICABLE and should be entered as an upper-case value.  

The properties of this dei:TradingSymbol fact are:  

Period: 2023-01-01 to 2023-03-31  
Dimensions:  

Rule Element ID: 10084  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC1  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template 
The filer has used an invalid trading symbol of {$TradingSymbol}. If a trading symbol is not applicable then use the no trading symbol flag element 'dei:NoTradingSymbolFlag'. The trading symbol cannot contain special characters such as {$InvalidCharacters.join(', ')} or Invalid Tickers such as {$InvalidTickers.join(', ')} and should be entered as an upper-case value.  

The properties of this {$TradingSymbol.concept} fact are:  

Period: {$TradingSymbol.period}  
Dimensions: {$TradingSymbol.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0162.10084 | TradingSymbol |
| DQC.IFRS.0162.10084 | TradingSymbol |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  