# Plan Asset Categories Allowed Line Items
Rule ID: DQC_0073  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 10, 2018  
Effective date: January 1, 2019 

## Rule function 
This rule identifies when inappropriate line items are used with the Plan Asset Categories Axis.  Only the following line items can have values associated with this axis:

||
| ----- |
|DefinedBenefitPlanInvestmentPoliciesAndStrategiesNarrativeDescription|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryPercentage|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsTargetAllocationPercentage|
|DefinedBenefitPlanWeightedAverageAssetAllocations|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryAmount|
|DefinedBenefitPlanNarrativeDescriptionOfBasisUsedToDetermineOverallExpectedLongTermRateOfReturnOnAssetsAssumption|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsMeasurementInputExtensibleList|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsValuationTechniqueExtensibleList|
|DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsFairValueByHierarchyAndNavExtensibleList|
|DefinedBenefitPlanActualReturnOnPlanAssetsSoldDuringPeriod|
|DefinedBenefitPlanActualReturnOnPlanAssetsStillHeld|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationDecreaseForSale|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationDecreaseForSettlement|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationIncreaseForPurchase|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPurchasesSalesAndSettlements|
|DefinedBenefitPlanTransfersBetweenMeasurementLevels|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsAtFairValueValuationTechniquesAndInputsChanges|
|DefinedBenefitPlanAmountOfEmployerAndRelatedPartySecuritiesIncludedInPlanAssets|
|DefinedBenefitPlanNumberOfSharesOfEquitySecuritiesIssuedByEmployerAndRelatedPartiesIncludedInPlanAssets|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsEmployerRelatedPartyTransactionTypeExtensibleList|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsEmployerRelatedPartyTypeExtensibleList|
|DefinedBenefitPlanAssumptionsUsedCalculatingNetPeriodicBenefitCostExpectedLongTermReturnOnAssets|
|DefinedBenefitPlanAssetsExpectedToBeReturnedToEmployerAmount|
|DefinedBenefitPlanChangeInFairValueOfPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationPeriodIncreaseDecrease|
|DefinedBenefitPlanTargetAllocationPercentage|
|DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsForeignCurrencyTranslationGainLoss|
|DefinedBenefitPlanTargetPlanAssetAllocationsRangeMinimum (Up to 2016)|
|DefinedBenefitPlanTargetPlanAssetAllocationsRangeMaximum  (Up to 2016)|
|DefinedBenefitPlanTargetPlanAssetAllocations  (Up to 2016)|
|AlternativeInvestmentsFairValueDisclosure (Up to 2017)|

In addition to these items, any extensions defined by the filer can also be associated with the Plan Asset Categories Axis. 

The rule reports an error for every fact that has **not** used one of the above line items or an extension line item with this axis.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule addresses the issue where companies have used asset category line items with this axis.  

### Scope of the Rule
This rule applies to all US GAAP taxonomies after 2017.  

## Example rule message
The concept us-gaap:RestructuringCharges with a value of 3,282,000 is used with the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis. This element cannot be used with this axis. The allowable list of elements that can be used are as follows:

- DefinedBenefitPlanActualReturnOnPlanAssetsSoldDuringPeriod,

- DefinedBenefitPlanActualReturnOnPlanAssetsStillHeld,

- DefinedBenefitPlanAmountOfEmployerAndRelatedPartySecuritiesIncludedInPlanAssets,

- DefinedBenefitPlanAssetsExpectedToBeReturnedToEmployerAmount,

- DefinedBenefitPlanChangeInFairValueOfPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationPeriodIncreaseDecrease,

- DefinedBenefitPlanFairValueOfPlanAssets,

- DefinedBenefitPlanInvestmentPoliciesAndStrategiesNarrativeDescription,

- DefinedBenefitPlanNarrativeDescriptionOfBasisUsedToDetermineOverallExpectedLongTermRateOfReturnOnAssetsAssumption,

- DefinedBenefitPlanNumberOfSharesOfEquitySecuritiesIssuedByEmployerAndRelatedPartiesIncludedInPlanAssets,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsAtFairValueValuationTechniquesAndInputsChanges,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsEmployerRelatedPartyTransactionTypeExtensibleList,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsEmployerRelatedPartyTypeExtensibleList,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsFairValueByHierarchyAndNavExtensibleList,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryAmount,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsInvestmentWithinPlanAssetCategoryPercentage,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationDecreaseForSale,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationDecreaseForSettlement,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsLevel3ReconciliationIncreaseForPurchase,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsMeasurementInputExtensibleList,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsTargetAllocationPercentage,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPlanAssetsValuationTechniqueExtensibleList,

- DefinedBenefitPlanPurchasesSalesAndSettlements,

- DefinedBenefitPlanTransfersBetweenMeasurementLevels,

- DefinedBenefitPlanWeightedAverageAssetAllocations

The properties of this us-gaap:RestructuringCharges fact are:  
Period: 2016-07-01 to 2017-03-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis=atge:UsTraditionalPostsecondaryMember, us-gaap:DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis=us-gaap:RealEstateMember  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 7648  
Rule version: 7.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The concept {$bad_fact.concept} with a value of {$bad_fact} is used with the DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis. This element cannot be used with this axis. The allowable list of elements that can be used are as follows:

- {$allowable_line_items.join(',
– ')}

The properties of this {$bad_fact.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$bad_fact.period}  
Dimensions: {$bad_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$bad_fact.unit}

Rule Element ID: 7648  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0073.7648|DefinedBenefitPlanByPlanAssetCategoriesAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
