# Bank Measures Less than One Percent  
Rule ID: DQC_0157  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 6, 2023  
Effective date: September 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies when the filer has reported values for capital adequacy ratios defined in the US-GAAP taxonomy that are less than 1 percent in the filing.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to identify those cases where the filer has an incorrect scale and has understated the value of the capital adequacy ratio.    

### Example rule message 
The element TierOneRiskBasedCapitalRequiredToBeWellCapitalized with a value of 0.0012 has an inline scale of 6 and a value less than 1%. A percentage item for banking measures should not be less than 1%.

Period: 2021-10-01 to 2022-09-30  
Dimensions:   
Unit: PURE  
Decimals: 4  
Inline Scale: 6

Rule Element Id:10077  
Rule version: 21.0.2CR  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template  
The element {$fact1.concept.name} with a value of {$fact1} has an inline scale of {$fact1.inline-scale} and a value less than 1%. A percentage item for banking measures should not be less than 1%.

Period: {$fact1.period  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  
Decimals: {$fact1.decimals}  
Inline Scale: {$fact1.inline-scale}

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0159.10077 | BANKING_MEASURES_BETWEEN_ZERO_AND_ONE |

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  