# Concentration Risk  
Rule ID: DQC_0109  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule consists of a number of parts that check concentration risks are reported correctly. All of the parts described below use the line item ConcentrationRiskPercentage1.  The correct reporting of concentration risk requires use of multiple dimensions.  The Concentration Risk by Benchmark Axis and Concentration Risk by Type Axis are required for all disclosures.  A third axis (e.g., Major Customers Axis or Statement Geographical Axis) may be used to disaggregate the data.

#### Part 1 - 9565
This part flags an error if the fact value is not equal to 1 for the element ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 when reported with no dimensions. 

#### Part 2- 9566
This part flags an error if the element ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 is reported without both the dimensions ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis and ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis. This rule excludes any facts reported with no dimensions when the value is equal to 1.

#### Part 3- 9567
This part flags an error if the element ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 is reported without the dimension ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis and with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis.

#### Part 4- 9568
This part flags an error if the element ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 is reported without the dimension ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and with the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis. 

#### Part 5- 9569
This part flags an error if the element ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 is reported with the dimensions ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis and does not have a third axis unless the value is equal to 1. If this is the case, a third axis is required to identify the breakdown of the risk. An exception was added to this rule for the following 2 members on the axis for ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis.
 -  LaborForceConcentrationRiskMember
 -  UnionizedEmployeesConcentrationRiskMember

These two members are used as an indicator if the labor force is unionized, or the percentage costs that labor comprises.

#### Part 6- 9570
This part flags an error if the member used on the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis is consistent with the member used on the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis. Certain benchmarks can only be used with certain risk types. This rule checks that these match a predefined list. Extension risk types are allowed and will not cause an error. These are attached as an appendix to the rule. Both the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis must be present for the rule to run.

#### Part 7- 9571
This part flags an error if there is a mismatch between the members defined in the US GAAP taxonomy and those used in the filing with the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis with the concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1.  The rule will not flag an error for extension members.

#### Part 8- 9572
This part flags an error if there is a mismatch between the members defined in the US GAAP taxonomy and those used in the filing with the  ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis with the concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1.  The rule will not flag an error for extension members.

## Problem solved by the rule
The committee has received comments from data users that the concentration risk percentages are poorly tagged with many inconsistent practices adopted by filers. In many cases the filers are not following the examples prescribed by the FASB in the implementation guides. This rule is designed to identify the predominant errors occurring in the filings and make this data useful. 

|Case|Rule Run|
|--- |--- |
|Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with no dimensions.|Part 1|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Segment dimension with abc segment and no other dimensions.|Part 2|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Risk By Type Axis only|Part 3|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Benchmark Axis only|Part 4|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Benchmark Axis and Risk By Type Axis only|Part 5|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Benchmark Axis with a value SalesRevenueNetMember and a Risk Type of SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|Part 6|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Benchmark Axis with a value of SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|Part 7|
|Concentration Concentration Risk percentage fact with a value of  0.67 with Risk Type Axis with a value of SalesRevenueNetMember|Part 8|

### Example rule messages
#### Part 1 - 9565
The concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.1 should always be used with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis.  This element has no meaning without these axis at a minimum.  Any data provided needs to be used in combination with an additional axis to define the actual risk as the numerator. The member used on the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis represents the benchmark denominator. The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2019-01-01 to 2019-09-30
Dimensions:  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9565
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 2 - 9566
The concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.357 should always be used with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis.  This element has no meaning without these axis at a minimum.  Any data provided needs to be used in combination with an additional axis to define the actual risk as the numerator. The member used on the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis represents the benchmark denominator. The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2019-10-01 to 2020-09-30  
Dimensions: srt:MajorCustomersAxis=brbr:LargestCustomerMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9566
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 3 - 9567
The concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.44 should always be used with both the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis.  This element has no meaning without both these axis at a minimum.  This fact only contains the numerator of ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis, and not the member used on the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis which represents the benchmark denominator. The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2019-05-01 to 2019-10-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis=bpsr:SecondSupplierMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9567
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 4 - 9568
The concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.15 should always be used with both the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis.  This element has no meaning without both these axis at a minimum.  This fact only contains the denominator of ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis, and not the member used on the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis which represents the benchmark numerator. The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2019-01-01 to 2019-09-30  
Dimensions: srt:MajorCustomersAxis=glow:CustomerNumberOneMember, us-gaap:StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis=glow:GlowpointMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis=us-gaap:AccountsReceivableMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9568
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 5 - 9569
The concept ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.504 should always be used with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis and a third axis to identify the risk area.  This element can only have a value of 1 when only the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis are used.  This fact needs another axis to identify the specific us-gaap:CustomerConcentrationRiskMember risk. The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2020-07-01 to 2020-09-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis=us-gaap:CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis=infu:ThirdpartyPayorRentalRevenueMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9569
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 6 - 9570
The concept us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.36 is used with the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis with a benchmark of us-gaap:SalesRevenueNetMember.  The risk associated with this benchmark of us-gaap:SupplierConcentrationRiskMember is not appropriate to this benchmark.  Consider using an extension risk or one of the risks associated with this benchmark such as GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember

The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2020-01-01 to 2020-09-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis=us-gaap:SalesRevenueNetMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis=us-gaap:SupplierConcentrationRiskMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9570
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 7 - 9571
The concept us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.117 is used with the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis with a benchmark of us-gaap:CustomerConcentrationRiskMember.  This is an invalid benchmark as it is an actual type of risk and not a benchmark. The benchmark should reflect the accounting concept that the risk applies to such as revenues, receivables, loans etc.

The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2020-04-01 to 2020-09-30  
Dimensions: srt:MajorCustomersAxis=aero:WootMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis=us-gaap:AccountsReceivableMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis=us-gaap:CustomerConcentrationRiskMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9571
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

#### Part 8 - 9572
The concept us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 with value 0.117 is used with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis with a risk of us-gaap:AccountsReceivableMember.  This is an invalid risk as it is an actual benchmark and not a type of risk. The type of risk should reflect the risk associated with a benchmark.

The properties of this us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskPercentage1 fact are:

Period: 2020-04-01 to 2020-09-30  
Dimensions: srt:MajorCustomersAxis=aero:WootMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis=us-gaap:AccountsReceivableMember, us-gaap:ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis=us-gaap:CustomerConcentrationRiskMember  
Unit: pure  

Rule Element ID: 9572
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The concept {$fact1.concept.name} with value {$fact1} should always be used with the ConcentrationRiskByTypeAxis and ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis.  This element has no meaning without these axis at a minimum.  Any data provided needs to be used in combination with an additional axis to define the actual risk as the numerator. The member used on the ConcentrationRiskByBenchmarkAxis represents the benchmark denominator. The properties of this {$fact1.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}\n  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0109.9565|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9566|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9567|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9568|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9569|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9570|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|
|DQC.US.0109.9571|ConcentrationRiskPercentage1|

#### Appendix

|Benchmark|Allowable Risk Types|
|--- |--- |
|SalesRevenueNetMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|SalesRevenueProductLineMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|SalesRevenueSegmentMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|RevenueFromContractWithCustomerMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|RevenueFromContractWithCustomerProductAndServiceBenchmarkMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|RevenueFromContractWithCustomerSegmentBenchmarkMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, CustomerConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, RevenueFromRightsConcentrationRiskMember, GovernmentContractsConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember|
|AccountsReceivableMember|CreditConcentrationRiskMember, GeographicConcentrationRiskMember|
|CostOfGoodsTotalMember|GeographicConcentrationRiskMember, SupplierConcentrationRiskMember, ProductConcentrationRiskMember, LaborForceConcentrationRiskMember, UnionizedEmployeesConcentrationRiskMember|
|ReinsuranceRecoverableMember|ReinsurerConcentrationRiskMember|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  