# Dimensional Values Larger than the Default  
Rule ID: DQC_0128  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 19, 2022
Effective date: May 1, 2022  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies those facts on specific dimensions and checks the values are smaller than the default value with no dimensions. The rule identifies a list of dimensions that should not have negative values and determines if any of the dimensionalized monetary values are greater than the default value.

The rule only checks those concepts that are monetary items that are also items that cannot ever be reported with a negative value. This uses the same list of elements used by rule 15 for validating negative items.

The rule also only compares the two values where the decimals of each of the values is the same.

The rule only checks dimensionalized values that appear on the following axes:

**US GAAP**
* PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis, 
* StatementClassOfStockAxis, 
* LongtermDebtTypeAxis, 
* srt:ProductOrServiceAxis, 
* FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis, 
* DebtInstrumentAxis

**IFRS**
* ClassesOfPropertyPlantAndEquipmentAxis,
* ClassesOfOrdinarySharesAxis, 
* ProductsAndServicesAxis, 
* ClassesOfIntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwillAxis
* BorrowingsByNameAxis

## Problem solved by the rule
In many filings companies use the default value not realizing they have used the same element on a dimension elsewhere in the filing with inconsistent values. This rule identifies these cases so another element can be selected. This can occur on larger filings where multiple parties may be tagging the disclosure.

### Example rule message
The concept us-gaap:NotesPayable with a value of 133,879 and dimensions of us-gaap:DebtInstrumentAxis=us-gaap:NotesReceivableMember is greater than the default value for this concept of 50,000. Dimension values used with the dimension DebtInstrumentAxis should aggregate to a value no greater than the default value of 50,000. Either update the default value or the dimension value.  

Element: us-gaap:NotesPayable
Period: 2021-03-31 
Dimensions: us-gaap:DebtInstrumentAxis=us-gaap:NotesReceivableMember

Rule Element ID: 9594
Rule version: 17.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The concept {$dimension_fact.concept.name} with a value of {$dimension_fact} and dimensions of {$dimension_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')} is greater than the default value for this concept of {$default_value_of_dimension}. Dimension values used with the dimension {$dimension} should aggregate to a value no greater than the default value of {$default_value_of_dimension}. Either update the default value or the dimension value.

Element: {$dimension_fact.concept.name}
Period: {$default_value_of_dimension.period} 
Dimensions: {$dimension_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0128.9594|All Elements|
|DQC.IFRS.0128.9598|All Elements|


© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  