# Face Financial Statement Location using the Accrual Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0183 
Status: Public Exposure March 15 - April 15, 2024 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule Function
This rule has two components that check for the appropriate use of the *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis*. This axis was added in the US_GAAP 2024 taxonomy to address the ambiguous use of the BalanceSheetLocationAxis.  This axis has been used to not only represent where an instant amount in the notes appears on the Balance SHeet, but to also idicate which instant concepts that accruals are made to. The FASB add the *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis* to allow filers to indicate which instant balance a durational accrual was applied too.

The first rule identifies those facts that are durational and monetary that have used the Balance Sheet location axis with the 2024 taxonomy. These facts should use one of the following axis:
- *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis* or 
- *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityCapitalizationAxis*

The second component of the rule identifies where the axis *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis* has not been used with an income statement item.  This axis is supposed to identify the durational accrual accounts effect on a balance sheet account. The rule identifes non income statement items and checks if they have been used with the axis *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis*. The rule does not apply to extension items provided by the filer.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule is intended to ensure that the *StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis* axis has been used correctly in filings and the BalanaceSHeetLocation axis is not used to indicate the accounts where accruals are posted to.

## Rule Messages
### Example rule message 1

The value 100 for Depreciation has been broken down using the axis BalanceSheetLocationAxis. This is a duration element. Duration elements should not be used with the balance sheet location axis. The BalanceSheetLocationAxis is used to show where a value appears in a Balance Sheet. If the element represent the explanation of the balance sheet accounts to which an accrual or duration element has been applied then one of the following two axis may be more appropriate:
- StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis or 
- StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityCapitalizationAxis

The properties of this Depreciation fact are:
Period :2023-01-01 to 2023-12-31
Dimensions : BalanceSheetLocationAxis=AccumulatedDepreciationMember
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10161

### Example rule message 2

The value 100 for Assets has been broken down using the axis StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis and the member AccumulatedDepreciationMember. This  axis should be used when a filer needs to disclose where a revenue or expense item has been reported as an effect on a statement of position line item. The concept reported is not a a concept that is an accrual concept that can be allocated to a Financial Statement account. See FASB guidance at https://xbrl.fasb.org/impguidance/FSL_PG/finstatelocdimensions.pdf.

The properties of this Assets fact are:
Period : 2023-12-31
Dimensions : StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis=AccumulatedDepreciationMember
Unit : USD

Rule Element Id:10162

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0183.10161 |StatementOfFinancialPositionLocationActivityAccrualAxis|
| DQC.US.0183.10162 |BalanceSheetLocationAxis|





© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
