# Conditional NonNegs  
Rule ID: DQC_0174  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: December 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where filers have reported a negative value for the concept FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesIndividuallyEvaluatedForImpairment1. This value however can be negative if the negative value does not exceed the values of FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesCollectivelyEvaluatedForImpairment or FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossExcludingAccruedInterest.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule identifies where the value is negative but does not produce false positives where in some cases the value can be netted against the collectively evaluated for impairment  element.    

### Example rule message
The concept FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesIndividuallyEvaluatedFor Impairment1 has a value of -100,000 which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value. The preparer should consider if the value is input correctly for this assertion and, after considering the appropriateness of the input, if incorrect, input the amount as a positive (i.e., absolute) value and provide a negated label.  

The properties of this FinancingReceivableAllowanceForCreditLossesIndividuallyEvaluatedForImpairment1 fact are:  
Period: 2023-01-01  
Dimensions:  
Unit: USD  

Rule Element ID: 10104  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
The concept {$individualLoss.concept} has a value of {$individualLoss} which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value. The preparer should consider if the value is input correctly for this assertion and, after considering the appropriateness of the input, if incorrect, input the amount as a positive (i.e., absolute) value and provide a negated label.  

The properties of this {$individualLoss.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$individualLoss.period}  
Dimensions: {$individualLoss.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$individualLoss.unit}  
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0174.10115 | Transition Elements |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  