# Property Plant and Equipment Calculation
Rule ID: DQC_0187  
Status: Public Exposure April 15 - May 31, 2024 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule Function
This rule test that the element *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross* is recorded correctly.  It also checks that the element *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetBeforeAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization* is recorded correctly.  The rule has 4 components to test this.

The first component checks that the element PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross when dimensionalized using the axis *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis* does not have dimensional components that are more than the value of *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross*.

The second component checks that the calculation *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross* is equal to *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentNet* + *AccumulatedDepreciationDepletionAndAmortizationPropertyPlantAndEquipment*.

The third component checks that the calculation *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetBeforeAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization* is equal to *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetAfterAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization* + *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization*.

The fourth component checks that the element PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross when dimensionalized using the axis *PublicUtilityAxis* does not have dimensional components that are more than the value of *PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross*.

## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule is intended to ensure that the Property Plant and Equipment totals are being recorded consistently.

## Rule Message
### Example rule message 1

The value of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross is reported as 3,526,016. The dimensional breakdown of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross using the axis PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis aggregates to a total of 4,359,590.  This is more than the value of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross.

The dimensional values reported are as follows:
165,701, 833,574, 3,360,315

Rule Element ID: 10173

### Example rule message 2

Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross with a value of 46,636,000 is not equal to the combined total of Property, Plant and Equipment, Net and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, Property, Plant, and Equipment ( 17,259,000 + 31,439,000 ) with a value of 48,698,000. 

These values should be equal.
The properties of this us-gaap:PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross fact are:  
Period: 2022-07-31  
Dimensions:    
Unit: USD
Decimals of Property, Plant and Equipment, Gross : -3
Decimals of Property, Plant and Equipment, Net : -3
Decimals of Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization, Property, Plant, and Equipment : -3

Rule Element ID: 10174

### Example rule message 3

Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, before Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization with a value of 46,636,000 is not equal to the combined total of "Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, after Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization" and "Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization" ( 17,259,000 + 31,439,000 ) with a value of 48,698,000. 

These values should be equal.
The properties of this us-gaap:PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetBeforeAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization fact are:  
Period: 2022-07-31  
Dimensions:    
Unit: USD
Decimals of Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, before Accumulated Depreciation and Amortizatio : -3
Decimals of Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, after Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization : -3
Decimals of Property, Plant, and Equipment and Finance Lease Right-of-Use Asset, Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization : -3

Rule Element ID: 10175

### Example rule message 4

The value of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross is reported as 3,526,016. The dimensional breakdown of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross using the axis PublicUtilityAxis aggregates to a total of 4,359,590.  This is more than the value of PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross.

The dimensional values reported are as follows:
165,701, 833,574, 3,360,315

Rule Element ID: 10176

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0187.10173 |PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross|
| DQC.US.0187.10174 |PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross|
| DQC.US.0187.10175 |PropertyPlantAndEquipmentAndFinanceLeaseRightOfUseAssetBeforeAccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortization|
| DQC.US.0187.10176 |PublicUtilityAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
