# Operating Lease Cost And Expense  
Rule ID: DQC_0088  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: December 1, 2023    
  
## Rule function  
This rule identifies filings where the filer has reported the operating lease expense and variable lease expense but not the operating lease cost. A second component of the rule checks that operating lease expense is not included in the calculation of LeaseCost.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The intent of the rule is to allow filers to check that their filing is consistent with the  FASB’s XBRL implementation  guide.  In addition, it ensures that companies following the guidance have selected the appropriate element for the operating lease cost.  

## Example rule message  
### Message 1
The element OperatingLeaseExpense with a value of 123,000,000 has been reported in the filing but the element OperatingLeaseCost is missing from the filing. Please check that the value for OperatingLeaseCost has not been tagged with another element or is missing from the filing.  

Period: 2019-01-01 to 2019-12-31  
Unit: USD  
Dimensions: none  
Decimals: -6  

Rule Element ID:  9372  
Rule version: 22.0  

### Message 2
The calculation children of LeaseCost includes the element OperatingLeaseExpense. If the filer has operating lease expenses rolling up into LeaseCost the element OperatingLeaseCost should be used instead of OperatingLeaseExpense.  The element OperatingLeaseCost is a required disclosure and should be used to report components of LeaseCost.  
  
Rule Element ID: 10094  
Rule version: 22.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 
  
### General message template  
### Message 1
The element {$leaseExpense.concept.name} with a value of {$leaseExpense} has been reported in the filing but the element OperatingLeaseCost is missing from the filing. Please check that the value for OperatingLeaseCost has not been tagged with another element or is missing from the filing.  

Period: {$leaseExpense.period}  
Unit: {$leaseExpense.unit}  
Decimals: {$leaseExpense.decimals}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  
### Message 2
The calculation children of LeaseCost includes the element OperatingLeaseExpense. If the filer has operating lease expenses rolling up into LeaseCost the element OperatingLeaseCost should be used instead of OperatingLeaseExpense.  The element OperatingLeaseCost is a required disclosure and should be used to report components of LeaseCost.

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 
  
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0088.9372|OperatingLeaseLiabilityNoncurrent|  
|DQC.US.0088.10094|OperatingLeaseExpense|

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  