# Invalid Axis used for Tangible and Intangible Assets
Rule ID: DQC_0204  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 18, 2025  
Effective date: September 1, 2025

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The rule checks that filers have used the `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` and the `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` with the appropriate members and concepts.  The rule has four components which check the following:

* Intangible Asset concepts are used with the axis `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis`
* The `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` axis is used with members that are associated with tangible Property plant and equipment.
* The `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` axis is used with members that are associated with definite lived and indefinite lived intangible assets
* The concept `CapitalizedComputerSoftwareGross` is used with the `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` axis.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filing types. 

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The rule is intended to identify where PPE dimensional breakdowns have been inconsistently defined with incompatible members and dimensions.  In the case of capitalized computer costs the last rule is to ensure that where it is included in PPE it uses the element `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentGross` with the member  `SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember`

## Example Rule Message 1

The concept  `us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife` with a value of P13Y has been used with the axis `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` and the member `us-gaap:ComputerSoftwareIntangibleAssetMember`. The concept  `us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife`  should be used with the `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` or the `IndefiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis`. Alternatively a different concept should be used to represent a line item associated with PPE.

Concept: `us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife`
Value: P13Y
Period: 2024-11-30
Dimensions: us-gaap:PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis=us-gaap:ComputerSoftwareIntangibleAssetMember, srt:RangeAxis=srt:MaximumMember

Rule Element ID: 10704
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1

## Example Rule Message 2

The concept  `us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife` with a value of P3Y has been used with the axis `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` and the member `us-gaap:SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember`. The member ` us-gaap:SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember` should not be used with the `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` as it is expected to represent a tangible asset. Please change the member to represent an intangible asset or change the axis to represent a tangible asset. i.e. PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis.

Concept: us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife  
Value: P3Y  
Period: 2024-12-31  
Dimensions: srt:RangeAxis=srt:MinimumMember, us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis=us-gaap:SoftwareAndSoftwareDevelopmentCostsMember

## Example Rule Message 3

The concept `us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife` with a value of P3Y has been used with the axis `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` and the member us-gaap:ComputerSoftwareIntangibleAssetMember. The member  `us-gaap:ComputerSoftwareIntangibleAssetMember` should not be used with the `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` as it is expected to represent an intangible asset. Please change the member to represent an tangible asset or change the axis to represent an intangible asset. i.e. `FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis` or `IndefiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis`.

Concept: us-gaap:FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetUsefulLife  
Value: P3Y  
Period: 2024-11-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis=us-gaap:ComputerSoftwareIntangibleAssetMember, srt:RangeAxis=srt:MinimumMember

## Example Rule Message 4

The concept `us-gaap:CapitalizedComputerSoftwareGross` with a value of 5,100,000 has been used with the axis `PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis` and the member `us-gaap:SoftwareDevelopmentMember`. The concept `CapitalizedComputerSoftwareGross` should not be disaggregated using this axis as the software in the type of PPE. Replace the concept with the concept `PropertyPLantAndEquipmentGross`.

Concept: us-gaap:CapitalizedComputerSoftwareGross  
Value: 5,100,000  
Period: 2024-09-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis=us-gaap:SoftwareDevelopmentMember

## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0204.10704 |PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis|
| DQC.US.0204.10705 |FiniteLivedIntangibleAssetsByMajorClassAxis|
| DQC.US.0204.10706 |PropertyPlantAndEquipmentByTypeAxis|
| DQC.US.0204.10707 |CapitalizedComputerSoftwareGross|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
