# Invalid Consolidation Axis  
Rule ID: DQC_0100  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 7, 2020   
Effective date: January 1, 2021  
  
## Rule function  
This rule identifies where the filer has reported a fact value which uses the axis InvestmentsByConsolidatedAndNonconsolidatedEntitiesAxis. The rule checks for the existence of any facts that have used this axis and reports an error.  This rule only exists for the 2020 taxonomy.  
  
## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to prevent filers from using this axis, as it has been deprecated in subsequent taxonomies and should not be used on an ongoing basis.  
  
### Example rule message  
The instance contains a fact value using the concept Assets with a value of 100,000 which uses the axis InvestmentsByConsolidatedAndNonconsolidatedEntitiesAxis. This axis is deprecated in 2021 and should not be used in 2020 filings.  The filer should use the consolidated entities axis as a replacement.  
  
The properties of this Assets fact are:  
  
Period: 2021-06-30  
Dimensions: InvestmentsByConsolidatedAndNonconsolidatedEntitiesAxis = Apple  
Unit: USD  
  
Rule Element ID: 9534  
Rule version: 13.0.0RC1  
  
## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The instance contains a fact value using the concept {$invalid_fact.concept.name} with a value of {$invalid_fact} which uses the axis InvestmentsByConsolidatedAndNonconsolidatedEntitiesAxis. This axis is deprecated in 2021 and should not be used in 2020 filings.  The filer should use the consolidated entities axis as a replacement.  
  
The properties of this {$invalid_fact.concept.name} fact are:  
  
Period: {$invalid_fact.period}  
Dimensions: {$invalid_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit:  {$invalid_fact.unit}\n  
  
Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.  
   
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0100.9534|InvestmentsByConsolidatedAndNonconsolidatedEntitiesAxis|   
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
