# Gross Acquisition Less Than Net Acquisition  
Rule ID: DQC_0113  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company reports the total "Payments To Acquire Businesses Gross" with an amount that is less than the value of "Payments To Acquire Businesses Net Of Cash Acquired". The value of the gross payments should always exceed the net payments. The rule excludes nil values and will only run when both values are present in the same context. The rule takes into account decimals when performing the comparison. The smallest decimal of the two values is used for the comparison.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule ensures that filers use the correct elements to identify the Gross Payments and the Net Payments for business acquisitions.

### Example rule message
The company has reported a value of  8,000,000 for the concept us-gaap:PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross which is less than the value of PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesNetOfCashAcquired  with a value of 37,000,000. It is expected that the value of us-gaap:PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross will always be greater than or equal to us-gaap:PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesNetOfCashAcquired 

The properties of this us-gaap:PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross fact are:

Period: 2018-06-30 to 2018-06-30  
Dimensions: us-gaap:BusinessAcquisitionAxis=bdsx:IntegratedDiagnosticsIncMember  
Unit: USD  

Rule Element ID: 9562
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The company has reported a value of  {$grossPaid} for the concept {$grossPaid.concept.name} which is less than the value of {$netPaid.concept.name} with a value of {$netPaid}. It is expected that the value of {$grossPaid.concept.name} will always be greater than or equal to {$netPaid.concept.name} 

The properties of this {$grossPaid.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$grossPaid.period}  
Dimensions: {$grossPaid.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$grossPaid.unit}\n  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0113.9562|PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  