# Consolidated Variable Interest Entities (VIE)
Rule ID: DQC_0083  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 1, 2019  
Effective date: March 31, 2020   

## Rule function  
This rule identifies those cases where the filer has used the _VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis_ axis with either of the following members on the face financial statements:

*   _VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryAggregatedDisclosureMember_
*   _VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryMember_

The _ConsolidatedEntitiesAxis_ should be used when a filer reports values for the VIE that comprise the consolidated values represented on the financial statements. The rule identifies all the concepts used in the face financial statements that are monetary items and then detemines which of these elements report facts using the VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis with either of the members above.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule addresses the inconsistencies in filing relative to VIE reporting, where the same facts are reported differently within a filing or across filings. This rule highlights where a filer has used a different approach to represent the portion of the financial statements that are attributable to the VIE. 

## Example rule message
The filer has used the element _AccountsPayableCurrent_ with the axis _VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis_ and the member _VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryAggregatedDisclosureMember_ to report a value of 475,018,000 in the filing. The filer should use the axis _ConsolidatedEntitiesAxis_ and the member _VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryMember_ to indicate the portion of the financial statement category that is applicable to consolidated VIE's.  

The properties of this AccountsPayableCurrent fact are:

Period: 2018-12-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis=us-gaap:VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryAggregatedDisclosureMember  
Unit: USD  

Rule Element ID: 9296  
Rule version: 10.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The filer has used the element {$fact1.concept.name.local-name} with the axis VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis and the member {$fact1.dimensions.member} to report a value of {$fact1} in the filing. The filer should use the axis ConsolidatedEntitiesAxis and the member VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryMember to indicate the portion of the financial statement category that is applicable to consolidated VIE's.  

The properties of this {$fact1.concept.name.local-name} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  

Rule Element ID: rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0083.9296|VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis = VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryAggregatedDisclosureMember|
|DQC.US.0083.9297|VariableInterestEntitiesByClassificationOfEntityAxis = VariableInterestEntityPrimaryBeneficiaryMember|

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
