# IFRS Non Positive Items  
Rule ID: DQC_0092  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 15, 2020  
Effective date: September 1, 2020  

## Rule function
This rule identifies where filers have used a positive value for an item that should be negative.  The rule consists of two sub components. The first checks that values using the EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember have a negative value. The second checks that certain elements used with the Carrying Amount Accumulated Depreciation Amortisation And Impairment And Gross Carrying Amount Axis and Accumulated depreciation members always have a negative value.

**Part 1.**
The first rule takes the list of non negative items used in rule DQC.IFRS.0080 and checks that any values reported for these elements and the SegmentConsolidationItemsAxis = EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember is always a negative number.  It excludes those facts that have additional dimensions and members that are known to flip the sign of a value.  This list of axis members and axis member combinations is the same list that is used for the non neg rule DQC.IFRS.0080.

**Part 2.**
The second rule takes a list of asset related elements and checks that any values reported for these elements and the axis  CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis used with any of the following members is always negative:

  1. AccumulatedImpairmentMember
  1. AccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentMember
  1. AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember

This rule also excludes those facts that have additional dimensions and members that are known to flip the sign of a value.  This list of axis members and axis member combinations is the same list that is used for the non neg rule DQC.IFRS.0080.

## Problem solved by the rule
The intent of the rule is to identify those facts that have been entered with a positive value when the value in fact should have been a negative amount.

## Example rule message
**Part 1**
DecreaseDueToHarvestBiologicalAssets has a value of 25,000,000 which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember. 

Period: 2019-01 -01 to 2019-12-31  
Dimensions: SegmentConsolidationItemsAxis = EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: -6

Rule Element ID: 9523  
Rule version: 12.0

**Part 2**
ifrs-full:IntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill has a value of 34,156,000 which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the dimensions ifrs-full:CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis=ifrs-full:AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember.

The properties of this ifrs-full:IntangibleAssetsOtherThanGoodwill fact are:

Period: 2017-12-31  
Dimensions: ifrs-full:CarryingAmountAccumulatedDepreciationAmortisationAndImpairmentAndGrossCarryingAmountAxis=ifrs-full:AccumulatedDepreciationAndAmortisationMember  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 9524  
Rule version: 12.0.0RC1 

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.

### General message template
**Part 1**
{$fact1.concept.name} has a value of {$fact1} which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the EliminationOfIntersegmentAmountsMember. 

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

**Part 2**
{$fact1.concept.name} has a value of {$fact1} which is more than zero. This element should not have a positive value when used with the dimensions {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}. 

The properties of this {$fact1.concept} fact are:

Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.IFRS.0092.9523|[All Non Neg IFRS Elements](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/DQC_US_0080/DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx?raw=true)| 
|DQC.IFRS.0092.9524|[Asset Elements](../../dqc_us_rules/resources/DQC_IFRS_0091/dqc_0091_ifrs_2018_concepts.csv)|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
