# Revenue Tax Policy
Rule ID: DQC_0075 - comment perio
Rule ID: DQC_0075  
Status: Draft for Public Comment
Publc Comment Ends *Monday, September 10, 2018*

## Rule function 
This rule identifies cases where the filer has disclosed a revenue recognition policy indicating that sales and excise taxes are excluded from revenues. (RevenueTransactionPriceMeasurementTaxExclusionPolicyTextBlock) It then checks if the element that indicates revenues including sales and excise taxes are included in the filing (RevenueFromContractWithCustomerIncludingAssessedTax) and that the element used for revenue excluding sales tax is not included in the filing. (RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax) If all these conditions are met, then the rule produces an error. An error is produced for every occurence of the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerIncludingAssessedTax.

No errors are produced if the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax is used and the element for the text block (RevenueTransactionPriceMeasurementTaxExclusionPolicyTextBlock) is not used.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule identifies those cases where the inappropriate revenue element is used in conjunction with the tax exclusion policy text block. If the company has used the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax the tax polcy element does not have to be completed.

## Example rule message
The filer has used the policy note element RevenueTransactionPriceMeasurementTaxExclusionPolicyTextBlock. This element is used to report that  sales and excise taxes are excluded from revenues. The element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax is excluded from the filing. This is the revenue element that is used to report revenue that excludes sales and excise taxes.  The filer has used the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerIncludingAssessedTax in the filing with a value of 100,000,000. This element should not be used if the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax is not reported and the tax exlusion policy is reported.

The properties of this RevenueFromContractWithCustomerIncludingAssessedTax fact are:
Period: 2017-01-01 &#8211; 2017-12-31
Dimensions :
Unit: USD

Rule Element Id: 7650
Rule version: 7.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.

### Message template
The filer has used the policy note element {$policy.concept}. This element is used to report that  sales and excise taxes are excluded from revenues. The element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax is excluded from the filing. This is the revenue element that is used to report revenue that excludes sales and excise taxes.  The filer has used the element {$withtax.concept} in the filing with a value of {$withtax}. This element should not be used if the element RevenueFromContractWithCustomerExcludingAssessedTax is not reported and the tax exlusion policy is reported.

The properties of this {$withtax.concept} fact are:
Period: {$withtax.period}
Dimensions: {$withtax.dimensions.join(', ','=')}
Unit: {$withtax.unit}

Rule Element Id: 7650
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0075.7650|RevenueFromContractWithCustomerIncludingAssessedTax|

© Copyright 2016 - 2018 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.
