# Element Values Are Equal (IFRS)  
Rule ID: DQC_0102  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 20, 2021  
Effective date: May 1, 2021  
  
## Rule function

This rule tests that the values reported between element relationships that are identified as an accounting constant are consistent within the filing.  For example Assets equals Liabilities plus Equity. The rule checks that the components of the calculation are present before checking the calculation. In some cases the components may not be present but their children are. In these cases the value can be derived by adding values across a dimension. The table below lists the defined calculations and the components that must be present for the rule to run. If a component is not required and the value is not present it is treated as having a value of zero.

In evaluating equivalents, the values are assessed based on the lowest decimal value. For example, if a value of 3 million with decimals of -6 is compared to a value of 3,100,000 with decimals of -5 then the values will be considered to be equivalent as both values will be rounded to a million (decimals of -6).

## Problem solved by the rule

The rule identifies the following issues in a filing:

  1. Values have been entered correctly
  2. The correct element has been used to report a value
  3. The calculation relationship has been defined correctly in the filing.

These issues are  a problem for consumption because the data will be extracted incorrectly for analysis.  

### Example rule message<sup><a href="#1">1</a></sup> 
Assets with a value of 340,000,000 is not equal to the total of Liabilities and Equity with a value of 350,000,000.  These values should be equal. 

The properties of this us-gaap:Assets fact are:  
Period: 2014-12-31  
Dimensions: none  
Unit: USD  
  
Rule version: 1.0

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
{$fact1.label} with a value of {$fact1} is not equal to the total of {$fact2.label} with a value of {$fact2}.  These values should be equal. 

The properties of this {$fact1.name} fact are:  
Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  
  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}        
${Result_item.name}  
Rule version: ${ruleVersion}  
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.  

The required facts column indicates that the facts for these concepts must exist in the filing for the rule to execute.  If a component of the equation is missing and the concept is required to get a valid result the rule will not execute. If a concept is not required and is missing it will be treated as if it has a value of zero. For example to calculate Assets the value of Current Assets and Noncurrent Assets are both required to be present for the rule to execute.

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Rule ID
   </td>
   <td>Relationship
   </td>
   <td>Required Facts
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9539
   </td>
   <td>Assets = LiabilitiesAndStockholdersEquity
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, Default Only</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Assets

<li>LiabilitiesAndStockholdersEquity
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9540
   </td>
   <td>Assets = CurrentAssets + NoncurrentAssets
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions except MaturityAxis and PastDueStatusAxis</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Assets

<li>CurrentAssets

<li>NoncurrentAssets
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9541
   </td>
   <td>Liabilities = CurrentLiabilities + NoncurrentLiabilities
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions except MaturityAxis and PastDueStatusAxis</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Liabilities

<li>CurrentLiabilities

<li>NoncurrentLiabilities
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="2" >9542
   </td>
   <td>Equity  = EquityAttributableToOwnersOfParent
<p>
 + NoncontrollingInterests
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, Default Only</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Equity

<li>EquityAttributableToOwnersOfParent

<li>NoncontrollingInterests
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" >If the extension element EquityAttributableToParticipatingPolicyholders is included in the filing it will be included in the calculation.  This is a non required fact.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9543
   </td>
   <td>ComprehensiveIncome = ProfitLoss + OtherComprehensiveIncome
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions except srt:ConsolidationItemsAxis</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>ComprehensiveIncome

<li>ProfitLoss

<li>OtherComprehensiveIncome
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9544
   </td>
   <td>IncreaseDecreaseInCashAndCashEquivalentsBeforeEffectOfExchangeRateChanges = CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivities + CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivities + CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivities
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>IncreaseDecreaseInCashAndCashEquivalentsBeforeEffectOfExchangeRateChanges

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivities

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivities

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivities
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9545
   </td>
   <td>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivities = CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesContinuingOperations + CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivities

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesContinuingOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9546
   </td>
   <td>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivities = CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesContinuingOperations + CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivities

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesContinuingOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9547
   </td>
   <td>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivities = CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesContinuingOperations + CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivities

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesContinuingOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>9548
   </td>
   <td>IncreaseDecreaseInCashAndCashEquivalentsDiscontinuedOperations = CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations + CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations + CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
<p>
<strong>Tolerance = 2, All Dimensions</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>IncreaseDecreaseInCashAndCashEquivalentsDiscontinuedOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInOperatingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInInvestingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations

<li>CashFlowsFromUsedInFinancingActivitiesDiscontinuedOperations
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>
___

<a name="1"></a>1:  Presentation style of rule messages may differ among software implementations of the rules.
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
