# Satisfaction Period With No Satisfaction Start Date Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0077  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 10, 2018  
Effective date: January 1, 2019 

## Rule function 
This rule checks if the satisfaction period elements have been used with the following axis :

- RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis

If the following two elements have reported fact values without the start date axis listed above then an error is produced. The two elements evaluated are :

- RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionPeriod
- RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionPeriod1

The first element applies to the 2017 taxonomy and the second element applies to the 2018 taxonomy.  

The rule produces an error for every occurance of a fact value using these elements that does not have the start date axis associated with it.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule identifies those cases where the satisfaction period elements are not used with the start date axis. Without this axis these elements have no meaning. This rule is intended to ensure that filers follow the guidance defined in the Revenue recognition implementation guide published by the FASB.  

## Example rule message
The filer has reported a value for the element  us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionPeriod with a value of P10Y without using the axis RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis. This axis must be used when reporting a value for us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionPeriod. Please refer to the FASB implementation guide on Revenue from Contracts with Customers  on the FASB website.  

The properties of this us-gaap:RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionPeriod fact are:  
Period: 2018-01-01 to 2018-03-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis=abc:GraduateProgramSegmentMember, us-gaap:RangeAxis=us-gaap:MinimumMember  
Unit: None

Rule Element ID: 7654  
Rule version: 7.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
The filer has reported a value for {$sat_period.concept} with a value of {$sat_period} without using the axis RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis. This axis must be used when reporting a value for {$sat_period.concept}. Please refer to the FASB implementation guide on Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the FASB website.  

The properties of this {$sat_period.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$sat_period.period}  
Dimensions: {$sat_period.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$sat_period.unit}

Rule Element ID: 7654  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0077.7654|RevenueRemainingPerformanceObligationExpectedTimingOfSatisfactionStartDateAxis|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
