# Assets Acquired Net of Goodwill  
Rule ID: DQC_0114  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2021  
Effective date: September 1, 2021
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company reports the values of Assets acquired and liabilities assumed excluding goodwill, the value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed including goodwill and the value of goodwill. The rule flags an error when the value net of goodwill plus goodwill does not equal the amount including goodwill. The rule effectively checks that this calculation holds using the elements below:

  BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet
+ Goodwill
= BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredGoodwillAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet

This rule will only run on those facts that use the BusinessAcquisitionAxis.  The rule also takes into account the decimal accuracy of the facts reported. The rule uses the minimum decimals to check the values are equivalent with a tolerance factor of 2. If the numbers are reported as millions then the rule will accept a difference up to 2 million.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule ensures that filers have used the correct element to record the value of goodwill when reported by acquisition.

### Example rule message
Business Combination Recognized Identifiable Assets Acquired Goodwill And Liabilities Assumed Net with a value of 87,139,000 is not equal to the combined total of Assets and Liabilities acquired excluding Goodwill and Goodwill ( 10,287,000 + 44,466,000 ) with a value of 54,753,000. 

These values should be equal.

The properties of this us-gaap:BusinessCombinationRecognizedIdentifiableAssetsAcquiredGoodwillAndLiabilitiesAssumedNet fact are:

Period: 2020-09-14  
Dimensions:  us-gaap:BusinessAcquisitionAxis=nvus:AnelixisTherapeuticsIncorporationMember  
Unit: USD
Decimals of Net Value Acquired: -3
Decimals of Net Assets and Net Liabilities: -3
Decimals of Goodwill: -3  

Rule Element ID: 9563
Rule version: 15.0.0RC1

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
{$NetValueAcquired.concept.label.text} with a value of {$NetValueAcquired} is not equal to the combined total of Assets and Liabilities acquired excluding Goodwill and Goodwill ( {$nanl} + {$Goodwill} ) with a value of {$CalcNetValueAcquired}.

These values should be equal.

The properties of this {$NetValueAcquired.concept} fact are:

Period: {$NetValueAcquired.period}  
Dimensions: {$NetValueAcquired.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$NetValueAcquired.unit}
Decimals of Net Value Acquired: {$NetValueAcquired.decimals}
Decimals of Net Assets and Net Liabilities: {$nanl.decimals}
Decimals of Goodwill: {$Goodwill.decimals}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0114.9563|PaymentsToAcquireBusinessesGross|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  