# Single Member Disaggregation  
Rule ID: DQC_0161  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: December 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies when the filer has used a single dimension member on one of the following axis:

* RetirementPlanFundingStatusAxis, 
* InvestmentTypeAxis, 
* RetirementPlanTaxStatusAxis. 

The rule identifies if a single member has been used on the axis and that no default value has been reported for the specific concept.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that filers use the extensible enumeration element rather than creating dimensions when the value can be captured using an extensible enumeration element.    

### Example rule message 
The filing has  reported a value for the element us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock with a value of 30,000,000 using the axis InvestmentTypeAxis in the role 00000023 - Disclosure - Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliated Real Estate Entity (Details Narrative) on the table us-gaap:ScheduleOfRestructuringAndRelatedCostsTable. However, the only member used to disaggregate the total for us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock was the member lrit:FortyEastEndAvePrefLlcMember. If only one member is used on this axis then the filer should either:  

1. Retag the filing using the element InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration with a value of lrit:FortyEastEndAvePrefLlcMember.  The member lrit:FortyEastEndAvePrefLlcMember should be removed from the value as it represents the aggregate value of us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock.  
2. Tag the aggregate value of us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock with a value of 30,000,000 without the InvestmentTypeAxis axis. This rule will not generate an error if the aggregate value of us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock is reported.

The properties of this us-gaap:DividendsPreferredStock fact are:  

Period: 2017-03-01 to 2017-03-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:InvestmentTypeAxis=lrit:FortyEastEndAvePrefLlcMember  
Unit: USD  
  
Rule Element ID: 10083  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC1  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template 
The filing has  reported a value for the element {$PrimaryConcept.concept} with a value of {$PrimaryConcept} using the axis {$dim} in the role {$cube.drs-role.description} on the table {$cube.cube-concept()}. However, the only member used to disaggregate the total for {$PrimaryConcept.concept} was the member {$PrimaryConcept.dimension($dim)}. If only one member is used on this axis then the filer should either:  

1. Retag the filing using the element {$axisExtensibleEnumDict[$dim]} with a value of {$PrimaryConcept.dimension($dim)}.  The member {$PrimaryConcept.dimension($dim)} should be removed from the value as it represents the aggregate value of {$PrimaryConcept.concept}.
2. Tag the aggregate value of {$PrimaryConcept.concept} with a value of {$PrimaryConcept} without the {$dim} axis. This rule will not generate an error if the aggregate value of {$PrimaryConcept.concept} is reported.  

The properties of this {$PrimaryConcept.concept} fact are:  

Period: {$PrimaryConcept.period}  
Dimensions: {$PrimaryConcept.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$PrimaryConcept.unit}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0161.10083 | RetirementPlanFundingStatusAxis, InvestmentTypeAxis, RetirementPlanTaxStatusAxis |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  