# Subtotals match Extensible Enumerations in the Schedule of Investments
Rule ID: DQC_0208
Status: Public Exposure December 8, 2025 - January 22, 2026 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Public Review Release date: December 8, 2025  

## Rule Function

**Purpose:** 

The purpose of Rule DQC_0208 is to ensure that any extensible enumeration value reported for the investment type and industry type is properly used as a member on the `InvestmentTypeAxis` and `EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis`. This rule validates that the values reported for `InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration` and `InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration` are consistent with the domain members defined for `InvestmentTypeAxis` and `EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis`. If an extensible enumeration value is reported but not used on these axis, it is flagged as a violation. This ensures accurate and consistent tagging of investment types in the Schedule of Investments (SOI) and prevents misclassification or incomplete reporting of investment data.

The rule also checks that if an extensible enumeration value is not directly included on an axis, it verifies whether an ancestor of the member is included in the domain of the axis.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filings that include investment disclosures.

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The problem solved by Rule DQC_0208 is ensuring the consistency and accuracy of reported investment data in the Schedule of Investments (SOI). Specifically, it addresses cases where extensible enumeration values for investment types (e.g., InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration) or industry types (e.g., InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration) are reported but not properly used as members on their respective axes (InvestmentTypeAxis and EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis). This can lead to misclassification, incomplete reporting, or inconsistencies in financial filings. The rule ensures that all reported enumeration values align with the domain members of the axes, maintaining logical and accurate tagging of investment data in financial disclosures.

## Example Rule Message # 1

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided subtotals for the InvestmentTypeAxis.  The filer has also reported values for the InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration concept.  The values reported for the InvestmentTypeExtensibleEnumeration concept should be used as members on the InvestmentTypeAxis or should roll up in a domain-member hierarchy to the member used as a subtotal.  The following extensible enumeration values have been reported but are not being used as members on the InvestmentTypeAxis or can be reconciled to this axis. 

- FirstLienSecuredDebtRevolverMember.  

Please ensure that these values are used as members on the InvestmentTypeAxis or are descendants of one of the following members abc:EquityPreferredEquityMember, abc:FirstLienSecuredDebtMember, us-gaap:CorporateBondSecuritiesMember, abc:RevolverMember, us-gaap:EquitySecuritiesMember, abc:SecondLienSecuredDebtMember, abc:FirstLienSecuredDebtThreeMember, abc:EquityCommonStockMember, abc:FirstLienSeniorSecuredLoansRevolverOneMember, abc:FirstLienSecuredDebtFourMember, abc:FirstLienSeniorSecuredLoansRevolverTwoMember, abc:FirstLienSecuredDebtOneMember, abc:FirstLienSecuredDebtTwoMember, abc:FirstLienSeniorSecuredLoansRevolverMember, that are used to define subtotals on the InvestmentTypeAxis.

Rule Element ID: 10727
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1


## Example Rule Message # 2

The filer has reported a schedule of investments and has provided subtotals for the EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis.  The filer has also reported values for the InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration concept.  The values reported for the InvestmentIndustrySectorExtensibleEnumeration concept should be used as members on the EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis or should roll up in a domain-member hierarchy to the member used as a subtotal.  The following extensible enumeration values have been reported but are not being used as members on the EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis or can be reconciled to this axis. 

- TransportationSectorMember.  

Please ensure that these values are used as members on the EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis or are descendants of one of the following members abc:ConsumerGoodsNonDurableSectorMember, abc:SoftwareMember, abc:EnvironmentalIndustriesSectorMember, abc:ServicesConsumerMember, abc:BeverageFoodAndTobaccoMember, abc:WholesaleMember, us-gaap:TechnologySectorMember, us-gaap:RetailSectorMember, abc:ConsumerGoodsDurableSectorMember, abc:FireRealEstateMember, abc:CapitalEquipmentSectorMember, us-gaap:ConstructionSectorMember, abc:FireInsuranceMember, abc:ServicesBusinessMember, abc:ChemicalsPlasticsAndRubberMember, abc:TransportationConsumerMember, abc:MetalAndMiningIndustriesMember, abc:AerospaceAndDefenseSectorMember, abc:HotelGamingAndLeisureMember, abc:HealthcareAndPharmaceuticalsMember, that are used to define subtotals on the EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis.


Rule Element ID: 10728
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0208.10727 |EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis|
| DQC.US.0208.10728 |InvestmentTypeAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
