# Executive Benefit Compensation
Rule ID: DQC_0190
Status: Public Exposure March 15 - April 15, 2024 - provide comment at https://xbrl.us/public-review  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule Function
This rule contains a number of checks to ensure that the form 11-K (EBP) is completed in compliance with the FASB implementation guide.  The rule checks for the following
  
1. The first check (10600) ensures that non EBP filings such as a s a 10-K or 10-Q do not use concepts defined in the EBP taxonomy.
2. The second check (10601) determines if the filer has used the concepts EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue or EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue has been used in the hypercube 'Employee Benefit Plan, Master Trust [Table]'. This concept should not be used in this table and should be replaced with EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValue.
3. The third check (10602) looks at each of the  following hypercubes:
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanStatementOfNetAssetAvailableForBenefitTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValueAndNavTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanNonparticipantDirectedInvestmentTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanRelatedPartyAndPartyInInterestTransactionsTable,  
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanScheduleOfAllocationAssetAndLiabilityTable
  
    The rule then determines if the concept EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValue has been used to report a fact in the hypercube. If it has and the concepts us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue or us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue have not been used to report a fact value in the same hypercube, then an error message is produced
4. The fourth check (10603) looks at each of the  following hypercubes:
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanStatementOfNetAssetAvailableForBenefitTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValueAndNavTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanNonparticipantDirectedInvestmentTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanRelatedPartyAndPartyInInterestTransactionsTable,  
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanScheduleOfAllocationAssetAndLiabilityTable
  
    The rule then determines if the concept EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentContractValue has been used to report a fact in the hypercube. If it has and the concepts us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustContractValue or us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustContractValue have not been used to report a fact value in the same hypercube, then an error message is produced

5. The fifth check (10604) looks at each of the  following hypercubes:
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanStatementOfNetAssetAvailableForBenefitTable, 
  - us-gaap-ebp:EmployeeBenefitPlanStatementOfChangeInNetAssetAvailableForBenefitTable
  
    The rule then determines the axis EmployeeBenefitPlanNonconsolidatedMasterTrustAndPlanInterestInMasterTrustAxis has been used on the hypercube to report a fact. If it has an error is produced, as this axis should not be added to these 2 hypercubes.

6. The fifth check (10605) determines if the filer has reported a value for  for the concept EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairAndContractValue in the filing, and has not reported a value for either EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue or EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustContractValue.  One of these values should be reported if EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairAndContractValue is reported.
7. The sixth check (10606) determines if the filer has reported a value for the concept EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairAndContractValue in the filing, and has not reported a value for either EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValue or EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentContractValue.  One of these values should be reported if EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairAndContractValue is reported.
8. The eighth check (10607) determines if the filer has reported a fact value using any of the following concepts:
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue,
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustContractValue,
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairAndContractValue, 
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue, 
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustContractValue, 
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairAndContractValue, 
    - EmployeeBenefitPlanChangeInNetAssetAvailableForBenefitIncreaseDecreaseForChangeInPlanInterestInMasterTrust
   
   with the axis EmployeeBenefitPlanNonconsolidatedMasterTrustAndPlanInterestInMasterTrustAxis. If they have then an error message is produced.

9. The ninth check (10612) determines if the filer has reported a value for a concept in the filing using the InvestmentIdentifierAxis and one or more additional axis. When using the InvestmentIdentifierAxis with a fact the only additional axis allowed is the LegalEntityAxis.
10. The ninth check (10613) determines if the filer has reported a value for a concept in the filing, with the axis EmployeeBenefitPlanAllocationStatusAxis and memberEmployeeBenefitPlanUnallocatedMember and the axis EmployeeBenefitPlanParticipantDirectedStatusAxis with the member EmployeeBenefitPlanParticipantDirectedMember. These two axis should not be used together on a fact with these members. See FASB EBP guidance example 6a/Note 2b.
11. The tenth check (10616) determines if all facts reported in the instance include the LegalEntityAxis. 
12. The eleventh check (10617) determines if all members on the LegalEntityAxis are in the format  EBP11-1111111-011Member.
   
## Problem Solved by the Rule
The rule is intended to ensure that the filing follows the implementation guidance defined by the FASB for filing the form 11-K.


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0190.10600 |Various|
| DQC.US.0190.10601 |EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentExcludingPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue, EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairValue|
| DQC.US.0190.10602 |EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairValue|
| DQC.US.0190.10603 |EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentContractValue|
| DQC.US.0190.10604 |EmployeeBenefitPlanNonconsolidatedMasterTrustAndPlanInterestInMasterTrustAxis|
| DQC.US.0190.10605 |EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentPlanInterestInMasterTrustFairAndContractValue|
| DQC.US.0190.10606 |EmployeeBenefitPlanInvestmentFairAndContractValue|
| DQC.US.0190.10607 |EmployeeBenefitPlanNonconsolidatedMasterTrustAndPlanInterestInMasterTrustAxis|
| DQC.US.0190.10612 |InvestmentIdentifierAxis|
| DQC.US.0190.10613 |EmployeeBenefitPlanAllocationStatusAxis|
| DQC.US.0190.10616 |LegalEntityAxis|
| DQC.US.0190.10617 |LegalEntityAxis|



© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
