# Tax Reconciliation Calculation  
Rule ID: DQC_0168  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 16, 2024  
Effective date: May 16, 2024  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies where the filer has not reported a calculation linkbase for the monetary and rate based tax reconciliation.  The rule determines if the statutory and effective tax rates are present and if the filing is a 10-K or 20-F. If no calculation is present and facts exist for the two elements then an error is produced. In addition the rule checks that the correct calculation weights have been used for the calculation used to define the tax rate reconciliation.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to detect those filings that are missing a calculation for the tax reconciliation and where a reconciliation is provided for the rate based reconciliation that the appropriate rates have been used.    

### Example rule message
#### Message 1
The concept us-gaap:EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationAtFederalStatutoryIncomeTaxRate is used in the filing with a value of 0.21.  This element is reported but is not included in a calculation relationship with the element  us-gaap:EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations with a value of 0.25.  The filer should add a calculation relationship between these two elements to capture the details of the effective tax rate reconciliation.  

Rule Element ID: 10096  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1

#### Message 2
The calculation weight between the concept us-gaap:EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations and us-gaap:EffectiveIncomeTaxRateReconciliationTaxExemptIncome is 1 in the extension taxonomy.  This weight does not match the weight between these two concepts defined in the US GAAP taxonomy which is -1. The calculation weight for this relationship should be updated to match the US GAAP taxonomy.  

Rule Element ID: 10098  
Rule version: 23.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template
#### Message 1
The concept {$stat.concept.name} is used in the filing with a value of {$stat}.  This element is reported but is not included in a calculation relationship with the element  {$effective.concept.name} with a value of {$effective}.  The filer should add a calculation relationship between these two elements to capture the details of the effective tax rate reconciliation.  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
#### Message 2
The calculation weight between the concept {$relationship[1]} and {$relationship[2]} is {$relationship[3]} in the extension taxonomy.  This weight does not match the weight between these two concepts defined in the US GAAP taxonomy which is {$expectedWeight}. The calculation weight for this relationship should be updated to match the US GAAP taxonomy.  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0168.10096 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations |
| DQC.US.0168.10097 | IncomeTaxExpenseBenefit |
| DQC.US.0168.10098 | EffectiveIncomeTaxRateContinuingOperations |
| DQC.IFRS.0168.10108 | IncomeTaxExpenseContinuingOperations |
| DQC.IFRS.0168.10109 | AverageEffectiveTaxRate |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  