# Related and Nonrelated Party Axis and Extensible Enumerations  
Rule ID: DQC_0158  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 6, 2023  
Effective date: September 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies when the filer has defined facts using the RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis and the extensible enumerations associated with this axis.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is defined to prevent users from using the RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis and associated extensible enumeration elements. The rule is introduced because this axis will be deprecated in the 2024 taxonomy. The rule is introduced to prevent filers from using these elements in 2023 as they will have to update it to the RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis in the 2024 filing.    

### Example rule message 1 
The instance contains a fact value using the concept us-gaap:OtherLiabilities with a value of 654,068 which uses the axis RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis. This axis is deprecated in 2024 and should not be used in 2023 filings. The filer should use the RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis axis as a replacement.

The properties of this us-gaap:OtherLiabilities fact are:

Period: 2022-12-31  
Dimensions: us-gaap:RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis=us-gaap:RelatedPartyMember  
Unit: USD

Rule Element ID: 10078  
Rule version: 21.0.2CR      

### Example rule message 2 
The instance contains a fact value using the concept us-gaap:AccountsReceivableAfterAllowanceForCreditLossCurrentRelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusExtensibleEnumeration with a value of set(RelatedPartyMember). These extensible enumeration elements should be replaced, as this concept is deprecated in 2024 and should not be used in 2023 filings. The filer should use the extensible enumeration elements associated with the  RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis axis as a replacement.

The properties of this us-gaap:AccountsReceivableAfterAllowanceForCreditLossCurrentRelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusExtensibleEnumeration fact are:

Period: 2022-12-31  
Dimensions:   
Unit: None

Rule Element ID: 10080  
Rule version: 21.0.2CR  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template 1 
The instance contains a fact value using the concept {$invalid_fact.concept.name} with a value of {$invalid_fact} which uses the axis RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis. This axis is deprecated in 2024 and should not be used in 2023 filings. The filer should use the RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis axis as a replacement.

The properties of this {$invalid_fact.concept.name} fact are:  
Period: {$invalid_fact.period}  
Dimensions: {$invalid_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$invalid_fact.unit}\n

Rule Element Id:{$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### General message template 2 
The instance contains a fact value using the concept {$invalid_fact.concept.name} with a value of {$invalid_fact}. These extensible enumeration elements should be replaced, as this concept is deprecated in 2024 and should not be used in 2023 filings. The filer should use the extensible enumeration elements associated with the  RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis axis as a replacement.

The properties of this {$invalid_fact.concept.name} fact are:  
Period: {$invalid_fact.period}  
Dimensions: {$invalid_fact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$invalid_fact.unit}\n

Rule Element Id:{$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0158.10078 | RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis |
| DQC.US.0158.10080 | RelatedAndNonrelatedPartyStatusAxis extensible enumeration elements |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  