# Liability Revenue Recognized  
Rule ID: DQC_0098  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 7, 2020  
Effective date: January 1, 2021  
  
## Rule function  
This rule identifies where the element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized (Contract with Customer, Liability, Revenue Recognized) is greater than the value of ContractWithCustomerLiability reported in the instance. The Value of "Contract with Customer, Liability, Revenue Recognized" should be less than or equal to:  
  
*   Prior period-end value of "Contract with Customer, Liability" or  
*   Sum of prior period-end values of "Contract with Customer, Liability, Current" and "Contract with Customer, Liability, Noncurrent."  
  
The rule compares the value of the opening balance of the liability to ensure that it is greater than or equal to the value recognized as revenue during the period.  
  
The rule is separated into two components. The first checks for the following fail case:  
  
```  
"Contract with Customer, Liability, Revenue Recognized" >  "Contract with Customer, Liability"  
```  
  
The second checks that:  
  
```  
"Contract with Customer, Liability, Revenue Recognized" > ( "Contract with Customer, Liability, Current" + "Contract with Customer, Liability, Noncurrent.")  
```  
  
## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to prevent the unintended use of the element "Contract with Customer, Liability, Revenue Recognized".  This rule is intended to facilitate the appropriate and consistent use of the element and to enhance quality and accuracy of XBRL data and its critical financial information required by the standard. The value of revenue recognized should be  the amount of revenue recognized that was previously included in the balance of the obligation to transfer goods or services to the customer for which consideration from the customer has been received or is due.  
  
## Example rule message  
**Example rule message #1**  
The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized with a value of 151,377 is greater than the opening balance of ContractWithCustomerLiability with an opening balance of 17,430 on 2017-12-31. The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized represents the amount from the opening balance that was recognized during the period. For this reason it cannot be greater than the opening balance.  
  
The properties of this us-gaap:ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized fact are:  
  
Period: 2018-01-01 to 2018-12-31  
Dimensions:   
Unit: USD  
  
Rule Element ID: 9531  
Rule version: 13.0.0RC1  
  
Example rule message #2  
The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized with a value of 62,000,000 is greater than the opening balances of ContractWithCustomerLiabilityCurrent and ContractWithCustomerLiabilityNoncurrent combined which have an aggregate opening balance of 39,024,000 on 2018-12-31. The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized represents the amount from the opening balance that was recognized during the period. For this reason it cannot be greater than the opening balance.  
  
The properties of this us-gaap:ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized fact are:  
  
Period: 2019-01-01 to 2019-12-31  
Dimensions:   
Unit: USD  
  
Rule Element ID: 9532  
Rule version: 13.0.0RC1  
  
## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
**General message template #1**  
The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized with a value of {$value_recognized} is greater than the opening balance of ContractWithCustomerLiability with an opening balance of {$openingBalanceOfValueRecognized} on {$openingDate}. The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized represents the amount from the opening balance that was recognized during the period. For this reason it cannot be greater than the opening balance.  
  
The properties of this {$value_recognized.concept.name} fact are:  
  
Period:  {$value_recognized.period}  
Dimensions: {$value_recognized.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$value_recognized.unit}\n  
  
Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  
  
**General message template #2**  
The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized with a value of {$value_recognized} is greater than the opening balances of ContractWithCustomerLiabilityCurrent and ContractWithCustomerLiabilityNoncurrent combined which have an aggregate opening balance of {$openingBalanceOfValueRecognized} on {$openingDate}. The element ContractWithCustomerLiabilityRevenueRecognized represents the amount from the opening balance that was recognized during the period. For this reason it cannot be greater than the opening balance.  
  
The properties of this {$value_recognized.concept.name} fact are:  
  
Period: {$value_recognized.period}  
Dimensions:  {$value_recognized.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$value_recognized.unit}\n  
  
Rule Element IDd:{$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.  
   
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0098.9531|ContractWithCustomerLiability|   
|DQC.US.0098.9532|ContractWithCustomerLiabilityCurrent, ContractWithCustomerLiabilityNoncurrent|   
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
