# Assets and Liabilities Classified as Held-For-Sale using Duration Element  
Rule ID: DQC_0106  
Status: Draft for DQC review  
Release date: TBD   
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify where the Assets And Liabilities Classified as Held-For-Sale axis has been used inappropriately.  The rule identifies fact values with duration types that have been used with this axis. The axis is used to identify balance sheet items that are held for sale.

## Problem solved by the rule
This axis is used to categorize assets and liabilities in the face of financial statements as held for sale. Because an entity must present a non‑current asset classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale separately from other assets in the statement of financial position, this axis is used to make that disaggregation. The rule identifies where filers have used the axis with items that cannot appear on the balance sheet, or roll into the balance sheet.

### Example rule message  
The filer has used the axis AssetsAndLiabilitiesClassifiedAsHeldForSaleAxis with the concept ifrs-full:ImpairmentLossRecognisedInProfitOrLossPropertyPlantAndEquipment and a reported value of 18,000,000. This concept is a duration concept. This axis should only be used with an instant concept.

These values should be equal.

The properties of this ifrs-full:ImpairmentLossRecognisedInProfitOrLossPropertyPlantAndEquipment fact are:  
Period: 2019-04-01 to 2020-03-31  
Dimensions:  ifrs-full:AssetsAndLiabilitiesClassifiedAsHeldForSaleAxis=ifrs-full:DisposalGroupsClassifiedAsHeldForSaleMember, bt:DisposalGroupName1Axis=bt:FranceAndLatinAmericaDivestmentsMember  
Unit: GBP  

Rule Element Id:9550  
Rule version: 14.0.0RC1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The filer has used the axis AssetsAndLiabilitiesClassifiedAsHeldForSaleAxis with the concept {$invalidFact.concept.name} and a reported value of {$invalidFact}. This concept is a duration concept. This axis should only be used with an instant concept.

These values should be equal.

The properties of this {$invalidFact.concept} fact are:  
Period: {$invalidFact.period}  
Dimensions:  {$invalidFact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$invalidFact.unit}  

Rule Element Id:{$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0106.9550|AssetsAndLiabilitiesClassifiedAsHeldForSaleAxis|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2020 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
