# Missing Abstract from Financial Statements  
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company reports a financial statement but does not include an abstract element that indicates what type of financial statement the role applies to.  The ESEF taxonomy requires that each of the following statements use a statement abstract as the root element: 

|Financial Statement|Required Root Abstract|
|--- |--- |
|Statement Of Financial Position|StatementOfFinancialPositionAbstract|
|Income Statement or Statement Of Comprehensive Income|StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract or IncomeStatementAbstract|
|Statement Of Cash Flows|StatementOfCashFlowsAbstract|

This rule checks that at least one of the above abstract elements appears as the root element in the presentation tree.  The rule reports an error if it cannot find these elements as a root element somewhere in a presentation role. Only these elements are checked as the filers must report each of these statements in the ESEF submission.

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule makes sure that it is possible to identify which financial statement each role represents. This allows other rules to run on specific roles based on what type of financial statement it is. The ESEF taxonomy also requires that fileres identify the financial statements by using these abstract items.

### Example rule message
The filing does not report either the element IncomeStatementAbstract or StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract in any presentation linkroles.  According to ESMA filing rules this abstract item must be reported as the root element of a Income Statement or StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract appearing in the filing.

Rule Element ID: 9840  
Rule version: 18.0.0RC1

### General message template  
The filing does not report either the element IncomeStatementAbstract or StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract in any presentation linkroles.  According to ESMA filing rules this abstract item must be reported as the root element of a Income Statement or StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract appearing in the filing.

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}
  
### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQR.IFRS.0138.9839|StatementOfFinancialPositionAbstract|
|DQR.IFRS.0138.9840|StatementOfComprehensiveIncomeAbstract or IncomeStatementAbstract|
|DQR.IFRS.0138.9841|StatementOfCashFlowsAbstract|
  
© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
