# Descendants of NonrelatedPartyMember  
Rule ID: DQC_0160  
Status: Final  
Release date: October 5, 2023  
Effective date: December 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule identifies when the filer has defined a member descendant of the element NonrelatedPartyMember. The rule also identifies where the member NonrelatedPartyMember has been used and the sibling member RelatedPartyMember has not been used.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that filers use the NonrelatedPartyMember appropriately. This member is used with the RelatedPartyTransactionsByRelatedPartyAxis with the RelatedPartyMember. The rule will identify if inappropriate descendants have been added and when the RelatedPartyMember is not included as a sibling to NonrelatedPartyMember.    

### Example rule message 1 
The filer has reported descendant members of the  member NonrelatedPartyMember. This member cannot have any descendants and is only to be used to show the non related party portion of a balance containing related party components. The descendant members are as follows: MyNonRelatedPartyMember.  

Rule Element ID: 10082  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC1

### Example rule message 2

The filer has defined the element NonrelatedPartyMember in the filing and includes the sibling members of MyRelatedPartyMember. When using the member NonrelatedPartyMember the filing must also have the sibling member RelatedPartyMember.

Rule Element ID:10092  
Rule version: 22.0.0RC1  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template 1 
The filer has reported descendant members of the  member NonrelatedPartyMember. This member cannot have any descendants and is only to be used to show the non related party portion of a balance containing related party components. The descendant members are as follows: {$NonRelatedPartyMemberDescendants.join(', ')}.  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### General message template 2 
The filer has defined the element NonrelatedPartyMember in the filing and includes the sibling members of {$NonRelatedPartyMemberSiblings.join(, )}. When using the member NonrelatedPartyMember the filing must also have the sibling member RelatedPartyMember.

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0160.10082 | NonrelatedPartyMember |
| DQC.US.0160.10092 | RelatedPartyMember |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  