# Basic and Diluted Extension Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0156  
Status: Public Exposure  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks that if the filer has created extension numeric elements that contain the string 'basicanddiluted'. The rule will only fire where values have been reported for one of these extension elements.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
Prior versions of the us-gaap taxonomy included elements for basic and diluted elements. This element was used when the value of the basic amount and diluted amounts were the same. The FASB deprecated these elements, requiring that both the basic and diluted amounts both be tagged.  Filers continued to tag the two values with a single element by creating extension elements that represented the basic and diluted amounts.  This rule identifies these cases in the filing.    

### Example rule message 
The filer has reported a value of -0.5  using the extension concept zzz:EarningsPerSharesBasicAndDiluted. This value should be tagged with separate  US GAAP elements for the Basic amount and the diluted amount.  This means the same fact needs to be tagged with separate elements.  An extension element should not be used to tag this fact.

The properties of this zzz:EarningsPerSharesBasicAndDiluted fact are:

Period: 2021-10-01 to 2022-09-30
Dimensions: 
Unit: USD/shares

Rule Element ID: 10074
Rule version: 21.0.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template  
The filer has reported a value of {$invalidItem}  using the extension concept {$invalidItem.concept.name}. This value should be tagged with separate  US GAAP elements for the Basic amount and the diluted amount.  This means the same fact needs to be tagged with separate elements.  An extension element should not be used to tag this fact.

The properties of this {$invalidItem.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$invalidItem.period}
Dimensions: {$invalidItem.dimensions.join(', ','=')}
Unit: {$invalidItem.unit}\n
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0156.10074 | basicanddiluted |

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  