# Use of Noncurrent Assets  
Rule ID: DQC_0149  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 6, 2023  
Effective date: September 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks if the Noncurrent Assets element has been used appropriately. This element represents long lived assets that are reported as part of the geographical segment. A number of filers have been using this element to represent Assets Noncurrent that appears on the balance sheet.   The first component of this rule checks that this element does not appear in the presentation linkbase representing the balance sheet. 

The second component of the rule checks that the element appears as a presentation descendant of the hypercube element ScheduleOfRevenuesFromExternalCustomersAndLongLivedAssetsTable.  The  rule flags an error if a different hypercube is an ancestor of the Noncurrent Asset element.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that filers use the NoncurrentAssets element appropriately as a measure of long lived assets across geographies. 

### Example rule message 1
The element NoncurrentAssets should not appear in the face financial statements of a filing. This element represents long lived assets that are reported in the segment reporting section of the financial statements. Use the element AssetsNoncurrent on the Balance Sheet.

Rule Element Id:9943  
Rule version: 21.0.0

### Example rule message 2
A value of 245,817,000 has been reported for the concept NoncurrentAssets. This element is used to represent the value of Long Lived Assets by Geographic region.  This element must be included as a presentation descendant of the table ScheduleOfRevenuesFromExternalCustomersAndLongLivedAssetsTable. The element appears as a descendant of the table us-gaap:DisaggregationOfRevenueTable.  Update the table to ScheduleOfRevenuesFromExternalCustomersAndLongLivedAssetsTable.

Concept: us-gaap:NoncurrentAssets  
Value: 245,817,000   
Total period: 2022-12-31  
Dimensions: srt:StatementGeographicalAxis=country:US  
Decimals: -3 

Rule Element ID: 10075  
Rule version: 21.0.1 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 1 
The element NoncurrentAssets should not appear in the face financial statements of a filing. This element represents long lived assets that are reported in the segment reporting section of the financial statements. Use the element AssetsNoncurrent on the Balance Sheet.

Rule Element Id:{$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### General message template 2   
A value of {$NonCurrantAssetFact} has been reported for the concept NoncurrentAssets. This element is used to represent the value of Long Lived Assets by Geographic region.  This element must be included as a presentation descendant of the table ScheduleOfRevenuesFromExternalCustomersAndLongLivedAssetsTable. 

The element appears as a descendant of the table " +  $actualLocation.join(', ') + ".  Update the table to ScheduleOfRevenuesFromExternalCustomersAndLongLivedAssetsTable.

Concept: {$NonCurrantAssetFact.concept}  
Value: {$NonCurrantAssetFact}  
Total period: {$NonCurrantAssetFact.period}  
Dimensions: {$NonCurrantAssetFact.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Decimals: {$NonCurrantAssetFact.decimals} 

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0149.9943 | NoncurrentAssets |
| DQC.US.0149.10075 | NoncurrentAssets |

© Copyright 2016 - 2024 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  