# Segment Reporting Inconsistencies  
Rule ID: DQC_0150  
Status: Public Exposure  
Release date: TBD  
Effective date: TBD  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks for inconsistencies in segment reporting disclosures.  This rule comprises a number of components.

### Component 1  
This component checks that the members on the ConsolidationItemsAxis aggregate correctly. The rule identifies the segment disclosure cube based on the extended link role description. It identifies those cubes using  the ConsolidationItemsAxis and gets the Monetary items in the cube.For each line item in the cube the rule sums the values using only the Consolidation Items Axis and compares it to the total of the line item.The rule checks  if the value of the dimensions is greater than the total. The rule will not run if the value of the total is less than zero or was not reported.

### Component 2
This component checks that the members on the StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis aggregate correctly. The rule identifies the segment disclosure cube based on the extended link role description. It identifies those cubes using  the StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis and gets the Monetary items in the cube. For each line item in the cube the rule sums the values using only the StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis and compares it to the total of the line item.The rule checks  if the value of the dimensions is greater than the total. The rule will not run if the value of the total is less than zero or was not reported.

### Component 3
This rule uses the segment rule as above but identifies where the consolidated items axis is used for a line item without the operating segment member, and a business segment has not been used.  This means the fact is a reconciling item.  The rule then checks if a business segment has been used with the line item without the operating member.  If this condition exists then an error is produced. The rule is determining if the operating segment member has been left off the business segment.

### Component 4
The rule identifies all the segment members excluding in the domain in the segment disclosure. It then compares the number of unique segments to the number of reported segments. The rule reports an error when the segments on the segment axis is less than the reported number of segments.

## Problem solved by the rule  
Prior versions of the us-gaap taxonomy included elements for basic and diluted elements. This element was used when the value of the baic amount and diluted amounts were the same. The FASB deprecated these elements, requiring that the both the basic and diluted amounts both be tagged.  Filers continued to tag the two values with a single element by creating extension elements that represented the basic and diluted amounts.  This rule identifies these cases in the filing. 

### Example rule message 
The disclosure 101230 - Disclosure - Information on Business Segments - Net Sales and Operating Income by Segment (Detail) includes an inconsistent addition of a dimensional member. The value of the concept us-gaap:Assets represents the sum of consolidation item members with a total of 6,120,900,000. The value of the total should be greater than or equal to the sum of the values of the consolidated items with a value of 6,747,400,000. The values for the component dimensions are as follows:

Reported consolidated items member srt:ConsolidationItemsAxis=us-gaap:CorporateNonSegmentMember with a value of 626500000. Reported consolidated items member srt:ConsolidationItemsAxis=us-gaap:OperatingSegmentsMember with a value of 6120900000. 

The addends are calculated based on the members on the consolidated items  linkbase defined for 101230 - Disclosure - Information on Business Segments - Net Sales and Operating Income by Segment (Detail). 

Total Element: us-gaap:Assets  
Total Value: 6,120,900,000 
Total period: 2022-12-31 
Dimensions: 
Decimals: -5 

Rule Element ID: 9876  
Rule version: 21.0.2  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template  
The filer has reported a value of {$invalidItem}  using the extension concept {$invalidItem.concept.name}. This value should be tagged with separate  US GAAP elements for the Basic amount and the diluted amount.  This means the same fact needs to be tagged with separate elements.  An extension element should not be used to tag this fact.

The properties of this {$invalidItem.concept.name} fact are:

Period: {$invalidItem.period}
Dimensions: {$invalidItem.dimensions.join(', ','=')}
Unit: {$invalidItem.unit}

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0150.10074 | basicanddiluted |

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  