# Breakdown of Operating Lease liabilities across Financial Statement Lines Items  
Rule ID: DQC_0087  
Status: Final  
Release date: February 12, 2020  
Effective date: May 15, 2020  

## Rule function  
This rule identifies 10-K, 10-K/A and 20-F filings where the filer has operating lease liabilities but has not included those operating lease liabilities in the financial statements. In these cases it is expected that the filer would indicate which financial statement line item the operating lease liability is included in.  This can be performed one of two ways:  

1. Use the Operating Lease Liability Extensible List item if the operating lease liability allocated to  one or more accounts. This should be used if the values allocated to each account are not provided.  
2. Use the balance sheet location axis when the filer reports the specific amounts of operating lease liability apportioned to separate balance sheet accounts.  

If the extensible list item or Balance Sheet Location Axis is not used then the rule will report an error.  

The rule applies to the following items used to record operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet:  

1. OperatingLeaseLiability  
2. OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrent  
3. OperatingLeaseLiabilityNoncurrent  

The associated extensible list items required for each of these elements is as follows:  

*   OperatingLeaseLiabilityStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList  
*   OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrentStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList  
*   OperatingLeaseLiabilityNoncurrentStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList  

In those cases where the filer has used the balance sheet location axis, the rule checks to ensure that two or more values have been tagged with the operating lease liability and the balance sheet location axis.  If only one value has been tagged with the balance sheet location axis<sup>[[1]](#1)</sup>, then the extensible enumeration element should be used instead.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The intent of the rule is to allow filers to check that their filing is consistent with the  FASB's XBRL implementation guide.  In addition it ensures that companies following the guidance have used the correct extensible enumeration elements and Balance Sheet location axis structure.  

## Example rule message  
The element OperatingLeaseLiability with a value of 100,000 has been used in the filing but does not appear in the financial statements of the filing. This disclosure should appear in the face financials unless it is included in another account caption. If this is the case, either:  

1. The element OperatingLeaseLiabilityStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList should be used to identify the account where the Operating Lease liability is included; or  

2. The Balance Sheet location axis should be used with two or more account members to identify into which financial statement captions the Operating Lease liability has been apportioned.  
  
Period: 2019-12-31  
Dimensions: none  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: -6  

Rule Element ID: 9369  
Rule version: 11.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 
  
### General message template  
The element {$leaseLiability.concept.name} with a value of {$leaseLiability} has been used in the filing but does not appear in the financial statements of the filing. This disclosure should appear in the face financials unless it is included in another account caption. If this is the case either:  

1. The element OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrentStatementOfFinancialPositionExtensibleList should be used to identify the account where the Operating Lease liability Noncurrent is included; or  

2. The Balance Sheet location axis should be used with two or more account members to identify into which financial statement captions the Operating Lease liability Noncurrent has been apportioned.  

Period: {$leaseLiability.period}  
Dimensions: {$leaseLiability.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$leaseLiability.unit}  
Decimals: {$leaseLiability.decimals}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 
  
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0087.9369|OperatingLeaseLiability|  
|DQC.US.0087.9370|OperatingLeaseLiabilityCurrent|  
|DQC.US.0087.9371|OperatingLeaseLiabilityNoncurrent|  

---  
<a name="1"></a> [1] A single value disaggregated on the balance sheet location axis is not a disaggregation.  

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
