# Missing Investment Identifier Axis
Rule ID: DQC_0210  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 18, 2025  
Effective date: September 1, 2025

## Rule Function

**Purpose:**

The purpose of Rule DQC_0210 is to ensure that all fact values related to individual investments are tagged with the axis InvestmentIdentifierAxis.

**Conditions:**

The rule will run on all filings that report fact values for the concepts InvestmentInterestRate, InvestmentBasisSpreadVariableRate, and InvestmentInterestRateFloor. If any of these values are reported without using the InvestmentIdentifierAxis then an error will be reported.

## Problem Solved by the Rule

The rule addresses those cases where a BDC filer has not used the InvestmentIdentifierAxis to identify rows that represent individual securities. Some filers have been reporting fact values by using a combination of dimensions or an extension dimension to report the facts associated with an individual investment.  This rule addresses this issue.

## Example Rule Message

The filing reports a value of 0.123 for the concept InvestmentBasisSpreadVariableRate using the dimensions of EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis, InvestmentTypeAxis, EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis

If the concept InvestmentBasisSpreadVariableRate is used the InvestmentIdentifierAxis axis should be reported on this fact.

Period: 2024-12-31
Dimensions: EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis = 1, InvestmentTypeAxis=2, EquitySecuritiesByIndustryAxis=3
Unit: pure
Rule Element ID: 10734
Rule version: 27.0.0RC1


## Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0210.10734 |InvestmentIdentifierAxis|


© Copyright 2016 - 2025 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice. 
