# Exchange Rate Effect Inconsistency  
Rule ID: DQC_0155  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 6, 2023  
Effective date: September 1, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks that the exchange rate impact on the cash flow statement is calculated correctly. The rule determines the descendant elements of the cash flow concept CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseIncludingExchangeRateEffect. The rule then checks that an Effect of Exchange rate element is included in the calculation of this element.  The exchange rate elements are:

 1. EffectOfExchangeRateOnCashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsIncludingDisposalGroupAndDiscontinuedOperations,
 2. EffectOfExchangeRateOnCashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalents
 3. EffectOfExchangeRateOnCashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsDisposalGroupIncludingDiscontinuedOperations

The rule will not fire if there are no descendant elements.  The rule will only fire where a value has been reported for an effect of the exchange rate element.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
In many cases filers have used the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseIncludingExchangeRateEffect when they should have used the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseExcludingExchangeRateEffect. This element excludes the effect of the exchange rate. This rule will ensure that filers are selecting the Before exchange rate element when they should.    

### Example rule message 
The filer has reported a value for the effect of exchange on cash and cash equivalents and has used the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseIncludingExchangeRateEffect. However the fiing does not include a calculation showing the value of the impact of exchange rates flowing into this element.  If the element represents the total before exchange rate adjustments then the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseExcludingExchangeRateEffect should be used.  

Rule Element ID: 10072  
Rule version: 21.0.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 

### General message template  
The filer has reported a value for the effect of exchange on cash and cash equivalents and has used the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseIncludingExchangeRateEffect. However the fiing does not include a calculation showing the value of the impact of exchange rates flowing into this element.  If the element represents the total before exchange rate adjustments then the element CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseExcludingExchangeRateEffect should be used.  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element ID is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--- |--- |
| DQC.US.0155.10072 | CashCashEquivalentsRestrictedCashAndRestrictedCashEquivalentsPeriodIncreaseDecreaseIncludingExchangeRateEffect |

© Copyright 2016 - 2025, XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  