# Transition Tax Elements  
Rule ID: DQC_0086  
Status: Final  
Release date: February 12, 2020  
Effective date: May 15, 2020  

## Rule function  
This rule identifies where filers have used tax elements that are no longer applicable because of changes in the accounting standards related to taxation. 
  
The rule works by identifying all elements that are children of the abstract element _ASU201517TransitionAbstract_ in the 2019 taxonomy.  Any values that use the elements in this list are reported as an error.  This rule is applicable for the 2018 and 2019 taxonomy only as users of these taxonomies are expected to have transitioned to the updated accounting standards.  

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule ensures that filers are using the appropriate tax elements in their filing.  

## Example rule message  
The element DeferredTaxAssetsGrossCurrent with a value of $3,000,000 has been used in the filing.  This element is a transition element and is intended to be used in periods before adoption of amendments from Accounting Standards Update 2015-17. The element should no longer be used for filings with fiscal years beginning after December 15th 2016.  
  
Period: 2019-12-31  
Dimensions: none  
Unit: USD  
Decimals: -6  

Rule Element ID: 9368  
Rule version: 11.0  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur. 
  
### General message template  
The element {$transition_element.concept.name} with a value of {$transition_element} has been used in the filing.  This element is a transition element and is intended to be used in periods before adoption of amendments from Accounting Standards Update 2015-17. The element should no longer be used for filings with fiscal years beginning after December 15th 2016.  
  
Period: {$fact1.period}  
Dimensions: {$fact1.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Unit: {$fact1.unit}  
Decimals: {$fact1.decimals}  

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 
  
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0086.9368|Transition Elements|  

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
