# Scale - Common Stock Outstanding  
Rule ID: DQC_0095  
Status: Final  
Release date: July 15, 2020  
Effective date: September 1, 2020  

## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify differences in scale used between the element EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding and the element CommonStockSharesOutstanding. The rule compares the values of the two elements and reports an error if one of the numbers is more than 100 times larger than the other number.

## Problem solved by the rule
The intent of the rule is to identify where filers have used an incorrect scale when reporting  Common Stock Shares Outstanding.

## Example rule message
The element dei:EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding with a value of 9,076,832 is different than the value reported for the concept us-gaap:CommonStockSharesOutstanding with a value of 9,076 by a factor of greater than 100 times.

Period: 2020-01-24  
Unit: shares  
Dimensions:  
Decimals: inf

Rule Element ID: 9528  
Rule version: 12.0.0RC1

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.

### General message template
The element {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding.concept.name} with a value of {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding} is different than the value reported for the concept {$CommonStockSharesOutstanding.concept.name} with a value of {$CommonStockSharesOutstanding} by a factor of greater than 100 times. 

Period: {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding.period}  
Unit: {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding.unit}  
Dimensions: {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding.dimensions.join(', ','=')}  
Decimals: {$EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding.decimals}

Rule Element ID: {$rule_id}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.
   
|Rule Element ID|Elements|  
|--------|--------|  
|DQC.US.0095.9528|CommonStockSharesOutstanding, EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding|  

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
