# Extension Members
Rule ID: DQC_0079  
Status: Final for IFRS &amp; US GAAP  
Release date: February 13, 2019
Effective date: May 8, 2019   

## Rule function 
This rule checks if the filer has used an extension member that has a known taxonomy member in the Country or State and Province taxonomies.  

If an extension member is created that represents a country, a state or a province then an error is produced for every dimension that the member appears on.  

The rule takes a standard list of known extension errors seen across historical filings and identifies the correct base member to use. This list can be updated as erroneous extension members are identified in filings.  

For the US-GAAP taxonomies this rule will not flag an error if the extension member is used on either the IncomeTaxAuthorityNameAxis or the StatementBusinessSegmentsAxis. Extension country or state members used with any other axis will flag a single error.  

For the IFRS taxonomies this rule will not flag an error if the extension member is used on the SegmentsAxis. Extension country or state members used with any other axis will flag a single error.  

## Problem solved by the rule
This rule identifies those cases where the  filer has used an extension member when a geographical concept already exists in the related taxonomy set. 

The use of standard taxonomy elements enhances comparability across filings. This is especially so when the members represent Countries or States.  

## Example rule message
UnitedStatesMember is an extension member on the axis StatementGeographicalAxis that was reported in the company extension, but duplicates a concept that exists in the SEC Non-GAAP taxonomies. Consider replacing UnitedStatesMember with the existing taxonomy concept US with the taxonomy namespace country.  

Rule Element ID: 7657  
Rule version:8.0.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
{$duplicate_concept} is an extension member on the axis {$dim_names_set.join(', ')} that was reported in the extension taxonomy, but duplicates a concept that exists in the SEC Non-GAAP taxonomies. Consider replacing {$duplicate_concept} with the existing taxonomy concept {$replacement.local-name} with the taxonomy namespace {$replacement.namespace-uri}.  

Rule Element ID: 7657   
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index 
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule. 

|Rule Element ID|Element|
|--------|--------|
|DQC.US.0079.7657|Extension Members|
|DQC.IFRS.0079.7657|Extension Members|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
