# Caption Value Matches Financial Statements  
Rule ID: DQC_0136  
Status: Final  
Release date: June 29, 2022  
Effective date: September 1, 2022  
  
## Rule function
This rule is intended to identify those cases where the company uses an extensible list item that refers to a Balance Sheet or Income Statement line item that does not exist on the referenced Statement. The rule checks that the values provided for the extensible list items defined in the taxonomy are legitimate financial statement line items that appear in the presentation linkbase.

## Problem solved by the rule  
Companies are required to report a number of disclosures in their financial statements, either on the Statement of Financial Position or in the notes. In a number of cases  values are reported in the notes that the filer is required to indicate in which financial statement line item the amounts are contained. The taxonomy uses the extensible list items to capture the line item used. This rule checks that the line item defined actually exists on the Statement. If the line item does not exist in the presentation linkbase defined in any of the financial Statements then the rule will fire. This rule is important as many users of financial data take SEC filings and put the data into a template. Many of these templates include values that pick up the amounts from the notes. When putting the data into a template the analyst needs to know the financial statement account from which the amounts in the notes should be deducted. When this information is inaccurate this adjustment is not possible.

### Example rule message
The extensible list item DefinedBenefitPlanNetPeriodicBenefitCostCreditExcludingServiceCostStatementOfIncomeOrComprehensiveIncomeExtensibleList has a value of Pensions. This item refers to the location of this item in the financial statements.  However, the concept Pensions does not appear in the face financial statements. Either update the value of the extensible list item Pensions with the element or add the line item Pensions to the presentation and calculation linkbase in the appropriate statement role.
  
Rule Element ID: 9837    
Rule version: 18.0.0RC1  

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 
The extensible list item {$related_ext_enum} has a value of {$x}. This item refers to the location of this item in the financial statements.  However, the concept {$x} does not appear in the face financial statements. Either update the value of the extensible list item {$x} with the correct element or add the line item {$x} to the presentation and calculation linkbase in the appropriate statement role.
  
Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}  
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0136.9837|Extensible Enumeration Elements|

© Copyright 2016 - 2022 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  