# Negative Values
Rule ID: DQC_0080  
Status: Final for IFRS  
Release date: February 13, 2019
Effective date: May 8, 2019   
 
> *see Appendix A for post-implementation edits*: 
> *  Line Item [removals](#lineitem)<!--- and [additions](#lineitemadds)--> 
> *  **Version 11** - added 62 concepts from 2019 IFRS taxonomy, effective May 15, 2020
> *  **Version 9** - added 667 elements from IFRS taxonomies, effective September 30, 2019 

## Rule function 
The IFRS Taxonomy is designed so that the majority of elements have a positive value. This rule tests whether the values for a given list of elements are negative. The rule does not test elements when a specified member is present which would allow the value to be negative.  

See file [DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx](DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx?raw=true) which provides a list of elements that should not be negative. The rule tests whether these elements have a negative value in an XBRL document.  

See file [DQC_0080_MemberExclusions.xlsx](DQC_0080_MemberExclusions.xlsx?raw=true) for a list of members that, when used with these elements, allow the value of the element to be negative. The rule does not test these member/element combinations.  

## Authoritative reference
SEC Staff Observations December 13, 2011, June 15, 2011, November 1, 2010, October 6, 2009  

The IFRS taxonomy is designed for the majority of elements to have a positive value, so that the value reported in the XBRL document represents the correct balance type for the element (e.g., debit balance type for assets and expenses and losses or credit balance type for liabilities and income and gains). If the value reported in the HTML document is shown with parentheses, the value reported in the XBRL document should still be positive, other than as described in the following sentence. In some limited cases, if the value also has a specified member associated with it, the value may be negative (e.g., when an element is used for an adjustment or elimination, the value may need to be negative).  

If the value reported in the HTML document is shown in parenthesis (e.g., interest expense or loss on disposition of assets), you may use a negated label to present the value in parenthesis in the SEC Interactive Data viewer without changing the positive value reported in the XBRL document. The value reported in the XBRL document (e.g., interest expense or loss on disposition of assets) should be the same as the value reported in the HTML document, even though the value in the HTML document is shown in parenthesis. Therefore, it is an error to change the value reported in the XBRL document to a negative solely because the value reported in the HTML document is shown in parenthesis.  

## Problem solved by the rule
Filers continue to have incorrect negative amounts in files, which is inconsistent with the balance types and definitions of the elements used and the structure of the IFRS Taxonomy. Incorrect values in a filing makes it difficult or impossible to use that data for automated analysis.  

## Example rule message<a href="#1"><sup>1</sup></a>
An example of the general rule message is shown below. 

Accruals has a value of -400,000 which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value.  

The properties of this ifrs:Accruals fact are:

Period: 2012-12-31   
Dimensions: none   
Unit: USD
  
Rule version: 1.0

## For Developers
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules.  

The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  

### Message template
${fact1.label} has a value of ${fact1.value} which is less than zero. This element should not have a negative value. 

The properties of this ${fact1.name} fact are:

Period: ${fact1.period}   
Dimensions: ${fact1.dimensions}   
Unit: ${fact1.unit}
  
Rule version: ${ruleVersion}

### Rule element ID index
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.  

See [DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx](DQC_0080_ListOfElements.xlsx?raw=true) and [DQC_0080_MemberExclusions.xlsx](DQC_0080_MemberExclusions.xlsx?raw=true) spreadsheets for rule element ids.

## Appendix A – Post-implementation edits

### <a name="lineitem"></a>Line Item removals (effective):

*   (8079) NetDeferredTaxAssets (October, 2019)
*   (8080) NetDeferredTaxLiabilities (February, 2019)
*   (7912) ExpenseFromSharebasedPaymentTransactionsInWhichGoodsOrServicesReceivedDidNotQualifyForRecognitionAsAssets (February, 2019)
*   (8325) RiskExposureAssociatedWithInstrumentsSharingCharacteristic (October, 2019)
*   (8556) ExpenseFromCashsettledSharebasedPaymentTransactionsInWhichGoodsOrServicesReceivedDidNotQualifyForRecognitionAsAssets (October, 2019)
*   (8585) ExpenseFromEquitysettledSharebasedPaymentTransactionsInWhichGoodsOrServicesReceivedDidNotQualifyForRecognitionAsAssets (October, 2019) 
*   (9300) ContingentConsiderationRecognisedAsOfAcquisitionDate (February, 2020)  
*   (7863) DescriptionOfDiscountRatesUsedInPreviousEstimateOfValueInUse (July, 2020)
*   (7864) DescriptionOfEffectiveInterestRateDeterminedOnDateOfReclassification (July, 2020)
*   (7872) DiscountRateUsedInPreviousMeasurementOfFairValueLessCostsOfDisposal (July, 2020)
*   (7873) DiscountRateUsedToReflectTimeValueOfMoneyRegulatoryDeferralAccountBalances (July, 2020)
*   (7887) EffectiveInterestRateDeterminedOnDateOfReclassificationOfFinancialAssetsFirstApplicationOfIFRS9 (July, 2020)
*   (7888) EffectiveInterestRateDeterminedOnDateOfReclassificationOfFinancialLiabilitiesFirstApplicationOfIFRS9 (July, 2020)
*   (7889) EffectiveInterestRateOfFinancialAssetsReclassifiedOutOfAvailableforsaleFinancialAssets (July, 2020)
*   (7890) EffectiveInterestRateOfFinancialAssetsReclassifiedOutOfFinancialAssetsAtFairValueThroughProfitOrLoss (July, 2020)
*   (8389) WeightedAverageLesseesIncrementalBorrowingRateAppliedToLeaseLiabilitiesRecognisedAtDateOfInitialApplicationOfIFRS16 (July, 2020)
*   (8409) CashFlowsFromLosingControlOfSubsidiariesOrOtherBusinessesClassifiedAsInvestingActivities (July, 2020)
*   (8417) CashFlowsUsedInObtainingControlOfSubsidiariesOrOtherBusinessesClassifiedAsInvestingActivities (July, 2020)
*   (8446) DerivativesAmountContributedToFairValueOfPlanAssets (July, 2020)
*   (8465) RevenueFromContractsWithCustomers (July, 2020)
*   (8469) IncreaseDecreaseThroughTimeValueOfMoneyAdjustmentOtherProvisions (July, 2020)
*   (8521) DescriptionOfRiskFreeInterestRateShareOptionsGranted (July, 2020)
*   (8554) NetFinancialAssetsSubjectToOffsettingEnforceableMasterNettingArrangementsOrSimilarAgreements (July, 2020)
*   (8613) BorrowingsInterestRate (July, 2020)
*   (8822) DescriptionOfDiscountRatesAppliedToCashFlowProjections (July, 2020)
*   (8966) DiscountRateUsedInCurrentMeasurementOfFairValueLessCostsOfDisposal (July, 2020)
*   (9046) DescriptionOfDiscountRatesUsedInCurrentEstimateOfValueInUse (July, 2020)
*   (8403) RevenueAndOperatingIncome (Proposed version 13)
*   (8595) TaxRateEffectOfExpenseNotDeductibleInDeterminingTaxableProfitTaxLoss (Proposed version 13)

------
<a name="1"></a><sup>1</sup>: Presentation style of rule messages may differ among software implementations of the rules.  

© Copyright 2016 - 2021 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  
