# Derivative Position Extensible Enumeration  
Rule ID: DQC_0143  
Status: Final  
Release date: January 25, 2023  
Effective date: March 31, 2023  
  
## Rule function
This rule checks that the value of the element Derivative Position Extensible Enumeration is either CallOptionMember or PutOptionMember. 

The rule then checks that these values are consistent with those defined in the taxonomy.

## Problem solved by the rule  
The rule is intended to ensure that the extensible enumeration value is correct. 

### Example rule message
The filing reports a value of CallOptionsMember for the concept DerivativePositionExtensibleEnumeration.  This concept can only use the values of either CallOptionMember or PutOptionMember.  Please change the value to one of these members or select another element.

Period: 2021-12-31  
Dimensions:   
  
Rule Element ID: 9865  
Rule version: 20.0.0 

## For Developers  
The [Global Rule Logic document](https://github.com/DataQualityCommittee/dqc_us_rules/blob/master/docs/GlobalRuleLogic.md) contains general guidelines for implementation of rules. The rule message template contains text and parametric reference to arguments of the rule operation, using the syntax ${parameter} to indicate that insertion of a parameter's value is to occur.  
  
### General message template 
The filing reports a value of {$DerivativeFact} for the concept {$DerivativeFact.concept.name}.  This concept can only use the values of either {$AllowableDerivativeFactValues.join(', ')}.  Please change the value to one of these members or select another element.  

Period: {($DerivativeFact).period}  
Dimensions: {($DerivativeFact).dimensions.join(', ','=')}  

Rule Element ID: {$ruleId}
Rule version: {$ruleVersion}  

### Rule element ID index  
The rule element id is used to identify unique elements or combinations of elements tested in the rule.

|Rule Element ID|Elements|
|--- |--- |
|DQC.US.0143.9865|DerivativePositionExtensibleEnumeration|

© Copyright 2016 - 2023 XBRL US, Inc. All rights reserved.   
See [License](https://xbrl.us/dqc-license) for license information.  
See [Patent Notice](https://xbrl.us/dqc-patent) for patent infringement notice.  